<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
			</h2>
			<p>
				<i>The scene is the hall of</i>
				<span class="smcap">Mrs. Lancaster’s</span>
				<i>house, about forty miles from London.</i>
			</p>
			<p><i>When the curtain rises it is just after dinner on the Sunday of the week-end party—the gramophone is going and there is a continual buzz of conversation.</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span>, <i>an emaciated soprano, is dancing with</i> <span class="smcap">Tom Veryan</span>, <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>with</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>, <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>with</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span>. <span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>is seated on the club fender, talking intellectually with</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>, <i>an earnest dramatist, the squalor of whose plays is much appreciated by those who live in comparative luxury</i>.</p>
			<p>
				<i>There must be a feeling of hectic amusement and noise, and the air black with cigarette smoke and superlatives. During the first part of the scene everyone must appear to be talking at once, but the actual lines spoken while dancing must be timed to reach the audience as the speakers pass near the footlights. This scene will probably be exceedingly difficult to produce, but is absolutely indispensable.</i>
			</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s much too fast, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do slow down a bit.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s the pace that’s marked on the record.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ve never danced well since the War, I don’t know why.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>But your last act was so strong, when she came in half mad with fright and described everything minutely.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I try to write as <i>honestly</i> as possible.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I gave her three for manners, but seven for charm, because I had to be a <i>little</i> nice!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I thought she was rather a decent sort.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, but really, Nicky, his technique completely annihilated his inspiration.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Not with Debussy and Ravel, with the older masters, yes; but he’s probably tired of them.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>That’s so stupid, I think.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>My dear, it was the most “chic” thing you’ve ever seen, but unfortunately the wrong color.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Marion Ferris had that Poiret model copied in the most frightful blue!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I believe my shoe’s coming off.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shall we stop?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, it’s all right.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wonder if you could gouge this cigarette-end out of the holder for me?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ll try. [<i>He does so.</i>] I always smoke a pipe when I’m working.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>How soothing!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I suppose one can never really judge properly from a recital.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Not with him, because he’s not dramatic enough.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Dramatic pianists make me uncomfortable.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Pawnie, your tongue grows more venomous every day.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Giggling</i>]</p>
			<p>Well, I had to say something—anyhow, it was true.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Especially about her ankles.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>My dear, yes!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>They both laugh.</i>]</p>
				<p class="hang15">[<i>The record comes to an end, and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>begins to change it. Everyone talks and laughs.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>You must come next Sunday week.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thanks awfully, I’d love to.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m only singing ballads, but you know what Sunday concerts are.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh yes, rather.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span>]</p>
			<p>What’s on the other side?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>“You’ve got the cutest ears and eyes and nose.”</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do put on “Spoony Moon in Upper Carolina.”</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, don’t put it on, Nicky; play it yourself; you always make the gramophone go too quickly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, go on, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Refusing</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce’s</span> <i>offer of a cigarette</i>]</p>
			<p>No, thanks, not another—I’m dancing with Tom.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Gayly</i>]</p>
			<p>Missing one, Tom.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Righto!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>commences to play a fox-trot</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Dragging</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>to his feet</i>]</p>
			<p>Come on, Mr. Fairlight, don’t overdo the serious dramatist stunt!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I warn you I’m no good.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He dances with her, and confirms the truth of his warning.</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span> <i>squashes down on<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_87"/>[87]</span> the piano-seat next to</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>and endeavors with one finger in the treble to follow the tune he is playing</i>. <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>stand right down close to the footlights, smoking and talking; their backs are half turned to the audience, but their remarks must be perfectly audible</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Tom Veryan doesn’t dance as well as he thinks he does.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>With that figure he ought to be marvelous.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>He’s too athletic.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Anyhow, I’m sure he’s a success at the Bath Club.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Doesn’t Florence look astounding?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Absolutely. She knows exactly what suits her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Where’s David?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>He went off to his study to smoke.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I do wish Florence wouldn’t be irritable with him in front of everybody. I felt acutely uncomfortable at dinner.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>It makes Nicky furious as a rule, but to-night he was too occupied with that stupid little fool Bunty Mainwaring to take any notice.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s an excellent type.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Very average; I only hope nothing will come of Nicky’s mania for her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t think we need worry.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Wait and see, my dear.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Leaving</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>at the piano and advancing on</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>]</p>
			<p>Come and dance, Pawnie, and tell me how divinely I sang on Tuesday.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Agreeably</i>]</p>
			<p>You didn’t.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>Ten for cruelty.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>They start to dance.</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>moves over to the mantelpiece for a cigarette</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Have you a match, Nicky?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Isn’t this a marvelous tune?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Fascinating! [<i>She goes over and sits next to him. Gently slipping her hand into his coat pocket.</i>] Darling, I <i>do</i> want a match. [<i>She brings out a little box.</i>] What a divine little box!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>stops playing and jumps up</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Violently</i>]</p>
			<p>Helen, give that to me!——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>Everyone stops dancing.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nicky dear, <i>don’t</i> be tiresome.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Recovering himself.</i>]</p>
			<p>I’m sick of playing. Let’s have the gramophone again. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span>.] Here’s a light, dearie.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He takes match-box out of another pocket and lights</i> <span class="smcap">Helen’s</span> <i>cigarette. She looks at him queerly for a moment, then he restarts the gramophone and everyone begins to dance again except</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>. <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>goes over to the fireplace and takes a coffee-cup from the mantelpiece</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Whose coffee is this? Some one drank mine, and I’d hardly touched it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>If it had no sugar in it, it’s mine.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Draining it</i>]</p>
			<p>It had no sugar in it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re dancing abominably, Tom.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, Am I?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>What’s the matter with you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know. I suppose I’m tired.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re not usually tired when you’re dancing with me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, Florence, don’t nag!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>How dare you speak to me like that?</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>She stops dancing and goes over to the fireplace</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Following her</i>]</p>
			<p>I say, Florence—I’m sorry——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Let’s stop the music for a moment and think of something really marvelous to do.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, let’s go on dancing.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m exhausted.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Stopping the gramophone</i>]</p>
			<p>What was that divine game we played coming back from Paris, Helen?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Just ordinary “Clumps,” wasn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I loathe “Clumps.”</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>What about the History game?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>What’s that?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh no, Nicky; it’s too intellectual.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>There’s a Mah-Jong set in the drawing-room.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>How divine! Let’s make up a table immediately.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I won’t be happy until some one gives me a set made entirely of jade.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come on, Bunty.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Looking at</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>]</p>
			<p>I can’t play it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You can; you used to play in Paris with Yvonne.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ve forgotten it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’ll soon remember again.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>He drags her off.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come along, Clara.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I insist on Mr. Fairlight learning.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m afraid I’m no good at that sort of thing.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’ll be able to put it in one of your plays.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come and watch; it’s too thrilling for words.</p>
			<p>[<span class="smcap">Clara</span>, <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>go off</i>.]</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Have you only one set, Florence?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes. Isn’t it maddening? Clara promised to bring hers down, but forgot.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Does Bruce Fairlight play Bridge?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, I don’t think so.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Dramatists are such a comfort in a house party, aren’t they?</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>She goes off.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Are you coming, Florence?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>No.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Nonplussed</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>But please don’t let me stop <i>you</i> going. I’m sure you’re <i>dying</i> to be with the others.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I say, Florence, I wish you wouldn’t go on like that.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know what’s the matter with you; you’ve never behaved like this before.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I haven’t behaved like anything.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’ve been exceedingly rude to me, both at dinner and afterwards.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wasn’t at dinner.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, you were; you snapped me up when I said I didn’t like Elsie Saunders.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You know perfectly well she’s a friend of mine.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, she oughtn’t to be, after the things she’s said about me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You will go on imagining.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing of the sort—I <i>know</i>! If you weren’t so dense you’d see, too—the jealousy I have to put up with. I get so tired of it all, so desperately tired.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>She becomes a little pathetic.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Talk about being different, you’re different too——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m unhappy.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Because I hate to see you being put against me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Florence!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’ll understand one day. They’re all very subtle, but I can see.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nobody’s said a word to me about you; they’d better not try.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why, what would you do?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’d—I’d be furious.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>And I’d let them see it, too.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Holding out her hands</i>]</p>
			<p>Tom——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I forgive you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can’t bear you being angry with me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Can’t you, really?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>It makes me feel beastly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come and sit here.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Sitting next to her on the club fender</i>]</p>
			<p>That’s a lovely dress.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>It is sweet, isn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You always wear wonderful clothes.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do I, Tom?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You know you do.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do you remember the very first time we met?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Rather.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oxford’s so full of romance, isn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>It was when you came down.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thank you, Tom dear.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>We did have fun.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You used to come up to <i>matinées</i>, and I’d motor you back afterwards.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Ripping!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>That reminds me, I’ve got seats for “Rolling Stones” on Tuesday. Don’t forget.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You never said you were going to get them.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>It doesn’t matter. I thought I did. We’d better dine at Claridges.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>But, Florence, I—I can’t come!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why not?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I promised to go out.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Who with?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Mother.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Can’t you put her off? It will be such a good first night.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well—you see, as a matter of fact—it’s rather awkward. I put her off the other day——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>There is a slight pause.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>A trifle coldly</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh, well, never mind, we’ll go some other night.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">David</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Hallo, Florence! I thought you were in the drawing-room.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>They’re playing Mah-Jong, and there’s only one set. I shall break in presently.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ll just go and see how they’re getting on.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>This obvious excuse for getting out of the room is not lost upon</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, do.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come and play soon.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes out quietly.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t you think this is a divine frock?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Very pretty.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You and Helen seemed to be very thick at dinner. What were you talking about?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing much. I like Helen.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Only because she flatters you and listens to everything you say.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>She doesn’t flatter me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I suppose she was talking about the farm, and giving her opinions.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>We did discuss the farm a little.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>She doesn’t know a thing about it, really.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Perhaps not, but it passed the time.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>He goes out.</i>]</p>
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>sits still for a moment, then she wearily buries her face in her hands. Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Going to her</i>]</p>
			<p>What’s the matter, darling?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing. I’ve got a slight headache.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why don’t you go Byes?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can’t; it’s much too early.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m sick of Mah-Jong.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Who’s playing now?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Pawnie and Helen and Clara are trying to teach Bruce Fairlight; he’s an awful fool at it.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He sits down at the piano and plays absently.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You must get Bunty out of that habit of contradicting everything people say.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t see why.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s bad breeding.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Striking a note viciously</i>]</p>
			<p>Who cares nowadays? We’ve all got a right to our opinions.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>She seems to forget that I’m much older than she is.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>That’s no argument, mother; it’s silly only to remember your age when some one says something you don’t like.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s having a bad effect on you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nonsense!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’ve changed since Paris.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Naturally.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You never used to be rude to me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, damn, I’m not rude.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, you are.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, don’t start running down Bunty.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Stop playing—stop playing!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Getting up angrily</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh, God!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes towards door and collides with</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>What’s happening?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing. Bunty’s just putting Nicky against me. I knew she’d try to.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You must be having a delightful evening! You leave the drawing-room, having rowed with Bunty, and come here and row with Florence.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Mother’s impossible.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s no different from what she’s always been.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, I haven’t realized it before.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Taking a cigarette and lighting it</i>]</p>
			<p>You haven’t been engaged before.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m hating this house party.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Lightly</i>]</p>
			<p>Don’t say that, dear; it’s not kind.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You know I don’t mean you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Are you very much in love?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes.—No.—I don’t know.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wonder.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s utterly devastating, anyhow.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>When did you meet her?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>About five months ago.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>What was she doing in Paris?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, I don’t know—fooling about.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Splendid.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s been studying French literature.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s going to write—herself—some day.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, I see!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Helen, do you like her?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can’t tell yet—yesterday was the first time I’d ever set eyes on her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s wonderfully intelligent.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes—I’m sure she is.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You <i>don’t</i> like her?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I tell you—I’m not sure yet.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s generally the way—one’s friends always hate one another.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
			<p>It <i>is</i> difficult for you, isn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I should so like you to like her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Very well—I’ll try.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s utterly opposite to me in every way.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, I see that.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>But that’s as it ought to be, isn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>It depends.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I need a sort of restraining influence terribly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s awfully good for me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Is she?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes—she curbs me when I get temperamental and silly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I always felt you needed encouraging more than curbing.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh, Helen—aren’t you a darling!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I mean it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re wrong, though—I’m all over the place.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Anyhow, I do hope you’ll be very happy with her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t suppose I shall ever be that. I haven’t got the knack.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do you work hard?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Really hard?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Frightfully.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Liar!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>If you’d seen me in Paris—studying, studying—all night long until the gray dawn put the guttering candle to shame—and my nerveless hands dropped from the keys——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Candles gutter awfully quickly when they’re burned at both ends.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Meaning that I look a debauched wreck of my former self?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Exactly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>If you go on encouraging me at this rate I shall commit suicide.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You do resent anyone taking a real interest in you, don’t you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I distrust it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know—I’m not worth it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You seem to be suffering from a slight inferiority complex.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Not a bit of it—I’m gay and witty and handsome.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, Nicky, you’re so maddening.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be cross, Helen.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m one of the few people who know what you’re really like, and you won’t give me the credit for it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do you think you do, honestly?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes—and I’m exceedingly worried about you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You needn’t be.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re sensitive and reserved and utterly foolish.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thank you—I’m beginning to feel beautifully picturesque.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>And you’re scared.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why! What have I to be scared about?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Would you like me to tell you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>No.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why not?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Because you’re a sentimentalist, and you see things that aren’t there at all.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re far more sentimental than I.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Darling Helen—you’ve got such a lovely mind—like a Christmas card—with frosted robins and sheep wandering about in the snow—bleating.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>All the same, I should give up drugs if I were you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Helen!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know what you mean.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do you think I can’t see?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Forcing a laugh</i>]</p>
			<p>You’re being terribly funny, aren’t you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>You fool! You unutterable little fool!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be dramatic, dear.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I thought you had common sense; I credited you with more intelligence than that.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>If you persist in being absurd.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Suddenly with intense feeling</i>]</p>
			<p>Nicky, don’t resist me, don’t fight me; I’m your friend; I wouldn’t have said a word if I weren’t. You’ve got to stop it; you haven’t gone very far yet; there’s still time. For God’s sake listen to reason.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shut up, shut up, don’t speak so loudly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nicky, throw it away.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>When did you find out?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>To-night, you know, when you were playing, but I’ve guessed for ages.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You needn’t be frightened, Helen; I only take just the tiniest little bit, once in a blue moon!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>If anything goes wrong, you’ll take a lot. Throw it away.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>What could go wrong?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Never mind, throw it away!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can’t. Look out; somebody’s coming.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">David</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Hallo!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Hallo, father!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>What’s the matter?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>The matter—why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>You look very worried.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Helen and I have just had a grand heart-to-heart talk; we’ve undone our back hair, loosened our stays and wallowed in it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, I see!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>We haven’t seen one another for so long—it was inevitable.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>You never came and looked at the farm this morning. I waited for you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m awfully sorry, father—I just went on sleeping.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ll see you later, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>All right.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>goes out</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>How do you think your mother’s looking?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Splendid—the same as ever.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Would you like a cigar?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, thanks, father—I’m not very good at them.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>I was just on my way to bed—there are far too many people in the house.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
			<p>You must be used to that by now.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>You ought to stay down here, you know—during the week, and get some fresh air.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ve got such millions of things to do in London.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Worth doing?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, of course.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>You look as though you needed a rest.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You needn’t worry about me—I feel splendid.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>She seems a nice girl.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Who—Bunty?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes. Quiet and untiresome.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>She’s a darling!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>When do you propose to get married?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know. The engagement’s only a sort of try out, you know.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, I see. I didn’t realize that. I’m so unversed in modern technicalities.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s her idea really—just to tread water for a bit.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>It sounds an excellent plan.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m awfully glad you like her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Is she musical?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, yes—frightfully!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Father, I think I will come down here for a few days—and work quietly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>If you do that I’ll go up to London every other day. I see so little of you when you’re at the flat.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>That’s settled then. I wonder what mother will say!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ll talk to her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>All right. She won’t bother about us much.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">David</span>
			</p>
			<p>No—I don’t suppose she will. I think I’ll be getting along to bed now. Good night, my boy!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night, father!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>They shake hands, and</i> <span class="smcap">David</span> <i>pats</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky’s</span> <i>shoulder rather tentatively. He goes upstairs and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>wanders to the piano. He plays absently, and</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>enters</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I want to talk to you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Still playing</i>]</p>
			<p>All right.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Perhaps you’d stop playing for a minute.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Won’t you let me woo you with a little Scriabine?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Please stop.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Rising</i>]</p>
			<p>I’m unappreciated—that’s what it is.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>There is a slight pause—he goes over to her.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p>I say, Bunty——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>What?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Before you say anything awful to me, I <i>am</i> sorry for being rude just now.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>So you ought to be.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Will you forgive me?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, I forgive you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ve been irritable all the evening.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Give me a cigarette, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Here.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>They both smoke.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thanks.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>What did you want to talk to me about?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Lots of things—us!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Hardening</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh, I see!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t you think it’s rather silly—being engaged?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, not at all.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I do.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Just because we bickered a bit to-night?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, not only because of that.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why then?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Can’t you see?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>No.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, we’re not very suited to each other, are we?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why do you suddenly say that?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Because I’ve only just realized it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m sorry.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s not your fault particularly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m glad.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s circumstances and surroundings.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, that can be altered quite easily. We’ll change the shape of the house—we’ll take all that wall away and turn that into a studio—you love studios, don’t you?—then we’ll transform the drawing-room into an enormous aviary.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s practically that now!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>And then we’ll——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shut up, Nicky!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m only trying to be amenable.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Are you, really?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, I’m putting up a sort of defense, Bunty. I have a feeling that you’re going to be unpleasant,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_127"/>[127]</span> and I want to establish myself comfortably before you start.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t want to be unpleasant—only honest.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You won’t let the two run together, will you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>With vehemence</i>]</p>
			<p>You’re hopeless, hopeless, hopeless!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes—I think I am, rather.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>In a way I’m glad—it makes it easier.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Does it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re not in love with me, really—you couldn’t be!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Please don’t say that.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why don’t you face things properly?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>One generally has to in the end. I like to put it off for as long as possible.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>That’s cowardly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be pompous, darling.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re a great help, I must say.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why should I help to destroy my own happiness?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>That’s self-pity and self-deception.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why are you going on like this?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Because I tell you—I’ve realized the truth.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I suppose you’ve taken a hatred to mother!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, not a hatred.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>You don’t like her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Not very much.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why not? She likes you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>She detests me.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nonsense! Why should she?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Because I’m young.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>What a filthy thing to say!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s true.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s nothing of the sort.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re so stupid sometimes.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thank you.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t let’s start bickering again.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>We won’t discuss mother any more then.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You started it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wish I could make you understand her like I do. I mean she’s awfully irritating, I know—but deep down she’s marvelous in spite of everything.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Coldly</i>]</p>
			<p>Everything?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Vehemently</i>]</p>
			<p>Yes, <i>everything</i>! Don’t be a beast, Bunty; just try to see her point a little, even if you do dislike her. She is terribly silly about being “young,” I know, but she’s been used to so much admiration and flattery and everything always, she feels she sort of can’t give it up—you do see that, don’t you? And she hasn’t really anything in the least comforting<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_131"/>[131]</span> to fall back upon. She’s not clever—real kind of brain cleverness—and father’s no good, and I’m no good, and all the time she’s wanting life to be as it was instead of as it is. There’s no harm in her anywhere—she’s just young inside. Can’t you imagine the utter foulness of growing old? ’Specially if you’ve been lovely and attractive like she was. The beautiful Flo Lancaster! She used to be known as that. I can remember her when I was quite small, coming up to say good night to me, looking too perfectly radiant for words—and she used to come to the school, too, sometimes, and everyone used to go mad over her, and I used to get frightfully proud and excited——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ve never heard you talk like this before.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t think I ever have.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I like you better clear cut, not blurred by sentiment.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>looks at her for a moment in amazement</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>To describe you as hard would be inadequate—you’re metallic!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can see straight.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Politely</i>]</p>
			<p>Can you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes. We could never be happy together.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Perhaps not.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shall we just—finish—then?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Certainly, I’m sorry we were too modern to have an engagement ring; you’d have been able to give it back to me so beautifully.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be ridiculous!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Better than being blurred by sentiment.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>lights another cigarette and, kicking off her shoes, perches on the club fender and proceeds to warm her feet at the fire</i>.]</p>
				<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>My dear, I’m <i>shattered</i>—and I’m going straight to bed—probably for several weeks.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shshsh! He’s coming.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Who’s coming?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>Bruce Fairlight. I’ve been teaching him Mah-Jong. These master brains—agony, dear——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>Very interesting, that game.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Weakly</i>]</p>
			<p>I thought you’d like it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s interesting <i>psychologically</i>! The concentration and suspense——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>, <span class="smcap">Helen</span>, <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>. <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>is grasping a whisky and soda</i>—<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>is eating a biscuit</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m quite exhausted; it must be the country air——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>—It was too lovely, because I started with two red dragons in my hand——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wondered who had them——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>One more tune, Nicky, before we go to bed——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, just one——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Looking at</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span>]</p>
			<p>I’ll play “I love you”—such a romantic tune.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He puts on the gramophone.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>What time’s everyone going up in the morning?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>The ten-o’clock’s the best—we’ll have breakfast at nine downstairs.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Confidentially</i>]</p>
			<p>Do you know that in London I can never do more than nibble a piece of thin toast, and whenever I’m away I eat <i>enormously</i>!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>How very peculiar!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Your tone revolts me, Nicky. You must never be irascible with your old friends.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>I haven’t got any.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nicky!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Sorry, Helen.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know what’s the matter with Nicky. He’s been in a vile temper all the evening—his first week-end home, too.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Such a pity, when so much trouble has been taken to make me happy and cozy.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come and dance, Bunty.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, not now.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Dance with him, Bunty. Chaps must have exercise.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You dance with Bunty, Pawnie—I’ll dance with Tom—come on.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>She and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>dance</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>The great thing in this world is not to be obvious, Nicky—over <i>anything</i>!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>dance, also</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>. <i>Everyone talks at once, as in the beginning of the act.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>You are infuriating, Helen. It’s a wonderful book.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Thoroughly second-rate.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>What do you think about <i>Mischievous Passion</i>, Fairlight?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I never read novels on principle.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, you must read this—it’s colossal.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be led away by Pawnie, Mr. Fairlight, he has no discrimination.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>But I tell you it’s brilliant! Absolutely <i>brilliant!</i></p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nonsense.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>There are times, Helen, when I could willingly see you dead at my feet.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>A little slower, for Heaven’s sake!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>How’s that?</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He makes it far too slow.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>I think you’d better go to bed, Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>We’re all going, anyhow.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Not yet, please, mummy dear—I’m having such a lovely time!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He slams off in a rage.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>I always knew the Continent was fatal for the young.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nicky’s upset—it’s my fault—we’re not engaged any more.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why—what’s happened?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing happened—it was never very serious, really.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>I had a feeling that it was.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You were wrong.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, I must say it’s all been rather abrupt.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s better to finish things off at once—cleanly—if you’re not quite sure, don’t you think?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Well, I’m sorry, Bunty. If you feel like that about it there’s nothing more to be said.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wouldn’t have mentioned it at all—only you all seemed to be blaming him for being irritable——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Poor Nicky!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>I really must go up to bed now. I’m so tired. Good night, Florence dear.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night, Clara. Breakfast at nine. Have you got books and everything you want?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Clara</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, thanks. Good night, everyone.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>Everyone murmurs good night politely.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Tom, be an angel and fetch me a glass of milk. It’s in the drawing-room.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>All right.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>He goes off.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Helen</span>
			</p>
			<p>Come on up, Florence. I’m dead.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>So am I. Will you turn out the lights when you come?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>With beautiful precision, dear.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>As she and</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>go upstairs</i>]</p>
			<p>Tell Tom to bring my milk up to me, somebody.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>All right.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night, Mr. Fairlight.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night, Florence.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>go off</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>I suppose we’d all better go up.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t feel I could sleep yet.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>Re-enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>with glass of milk</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Hallo! Where’s Florence?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Gone up to bed. Will you take her milk to her?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>What’s become of Nicky?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>In the smoking-room, I think.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night, Miss Mainwaring.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>They shake hands.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>I shall come, too—good night.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Good night.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>as they go upstairs</i>]</p>
			<p>When you’re writing, do your characters grow as you go along?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bruce</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, I think each one out minutely beforehand.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>
			</p>
			<p>How too intriguing.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>They go off.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>So you’ve broken it off already?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I didn’t know you were going to do it so soon.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s better to get things over.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>What did he say?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Nothing much.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Was he furious?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, what does it matter? Don’t let’s go on about it.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s all damned awkward.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>What?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>The whole thing.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re rather scared, aren’t you?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>No, not exactly—now that I’ve got you to back me up.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I shall be glad when we’re out of this house.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>So shall I.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I hate the atmosphere.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I don’t know how I’ve stood it for so long.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You didn’t notice it until I came, any more than I noticed Nicky’s atmosphere until you came.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>It’s queer, isn’t it?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>We’re reverting to type, don’t you see?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>How d’ye mean?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Never mind, it’s true.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Do you think I’m being a cad to Florence?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, I do rather.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>But, Bunty! You said this morning——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>That I didn’t see how you could help yourself; neither I do. It’s frightfully difficult, but it’s not altogether your fault, any more than it would have been mine if I’d married Nicky. One gets carried away by glamour, and personality, and magnetism—they’re beastly treacherous things.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You are wonderful.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t be silly.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re so cool and clear, and you see everything.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m sorry—for Nicky.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, damn Nicky!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
			<p>Oh, Tom!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Why, what’s up?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re so dead set.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>You’re worth ten of him any day. What’s the use of a chap like that? He <i>doesn’t do</i> anything except play the piano—he can’t play any games, he’s always trying to be funny——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Shut up, Tom; you’re being rather cheap. I haven’t reverted to type so quickly that I can’t see some of the things I’m missing.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I wish I knew what you were talking about.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Oh, God! I feel so miserable!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>She burst into tears.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Flummoxed</i>]</p>
			<p>I say—Bunty—for Heaven’s sake——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He puts his arm round her.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Shaking him off</i>]</p>
			<p>Don’t, don’t. Give me my shoes——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He picks up her shoes; she puts them on. She is half sobbing all the time.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I say, old girl, hadn’t you better go to bed? You’re all wrought up!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>He said beastly things.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’ll wring his neck.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>With a fresh burst of tears</i>]</p>
			<p>Shut up, Tom, shut up——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Bunty, stop crying—there’s a dear; please, please stop crying——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He takes her in his arms and kisses her; she is groping for her handkerchief.</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>comes quietly downstairs</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I can’t find my hanky!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Here’s mine.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Like a pistol shot</i>]</p>
			<p>Tom!</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>break away</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, Florence?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Ominously</i>]</p>
			<p>What does this mean?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I’m sorry, Florence—I——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>You utter cad!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>Look here—I should like to say——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Be quiet—mind your own business.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>enters</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Seeing tears on</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty’s</span> <i>face</i>]</p>
			<p>What’s the matter—is anybody hurt?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Ominously</i>]</p>
			<p>No, not hurt!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I banged my hand, that’s all.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Liar!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>Mother—don’t be so stupid——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Florence—I——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Don’t <i>speak</i> to me——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Nicky</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Quietly</i>]</p>
			<p>Mother—not now—not now—it’s all wrong. Control yourself! Bunty—Bunty—do go to bed—please.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes to the piano and begins to play jazz.</i>]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>All right—Tom——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>goes to the fireplace, trembling with rage</i>. <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>goes on playing</i>. <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>go towards the stairs</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Stop—I want an explanation, please!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>How dare you speak to me like that?</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Get out of my house! Get out of my house!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>This is disgusting!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>I say, Florence——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Get out of my house!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Bunty</span>
			</p>
			<p>I shall leave the first thing in the morning; it’s much too late to-night.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>[<i>She goes off.</i>]</p>
				<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>never stops playing for a moment</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Tom. [<i>He goes towards her, absolutely silent.</i>] You kissed her—you kissed her—I saw you!——</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>In this house!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Yes, Florence. I apologize.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>Apologize! You’re beneath contempt. Never speak to me again, never touch me again—I hate you!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>Look here, Florence—I’m desperately sorry. You see, I’m afraid I love her.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Hysterically</i>]</p>
			<p>You dare to stand there and say that to me? It’s incredible—after all I’ve done for you—after all we’ve been to each other. Love! You don’t know what it means. You’ve lied to me—all these months. It’s contemptible—humiliating. Get out of my sight!</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Tom</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Turning and going upstairs</i>]</p>
			<p>Very well.</p>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Florence</span>
			</p>
			<p>[<i>Suddenly realizing that he is gone</i>]</p>
			<p>Tom—Tom—come back—come back!——</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p class="hang15">[<i>She runs upstairs after him.</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>at last stops playing and lets his hands drop from the keys</i>.]</p>
			</div>
			<p class="center p1">
				<span class="smcap">Curtain</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
