<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<p>The scene is the drawing-room of <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Mrs. Lancaster’s</b> flat in London. The colors and decoration are on the verge of being original. The furniture is simple but distinctly expensive.</p>
			<p>Persons shown are <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen Saville</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauncefort Quentin</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen Saville</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauncefort Quentin</b> are shown in by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</b> is a smartly dressed woman of about thirty. “<b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</b>” is an elderly maiden gentleman.</p>
			<table>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>I’m expecting Mrs. Lancaster in at any moment now, ma’am.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Thank you, Preston, we’ll wait a little.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Shall I get you some tea?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No, thanks, we’ve already had some⁠—give me a cigarette, Pawnie; they’re in that box on the table.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</b> hands her cigarette box. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>It may be tiresome of me, but I think all this coloring is oppressive.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You make such a “fetish” of house decoration, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Wandering round the room</i>
						</p>
						<p>Not at all, but I do like things to be good and right.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Well, I don’t consider the new frieze in your bathroom either good or right.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>How can you, Helen! It’s too marvelous for words. Parelli designed it specially for me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Personally, it would make me self-conscious to sit in a bath surrounded by frisky gods and goddesses all with such better figures than mine.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I find it encouraging. This whole room is so typical of Florence.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>In what way?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Every way. Look at the furniture.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>A little artificial perhaps, but quite harmless.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Dear Helen, you’re such a loyal friend.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I’m very fond of Florence.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>We all are. Oh, my God, look at that lampshade!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I gave it to her last Christmas.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Wasn’t that a little naughty of you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I don’t see why; it’s extremely pretty.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Too unrestrained. Such a bad example for the <i>servants</i>. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He takes up frame from desk.</i> Who’s this boy?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Tom Veryan. You must have seen him.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Florence’s past, present, or future?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Present.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>He has that innocent look that never fails to attract elderly women.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Don’t be a cat.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I wasn’t meaning Florence; she’s too divine to be in any marked category.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I wonder.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Oh, yes, Helen, deathless sort of magnetism, you know.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I often wonder what will happen to Florence eventually.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>My dear, I’m far too occupied in wondering what’s going to happen to me to worry about other people.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I’ve always thought your course was quite clear, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>However offensive that remark was intended to be, Helen, I shall take it in the most complimentary spirit.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I’m sure you will.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I expect Florence will just go on and on, then suddenly become quite beautifully old, and go on and on still more.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It’s too late now for her to become beautifully old, I’m afraid. She’ll have to be young indefinitely.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I don’t suppose she’ll mind that, but it’s trying for David.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>And fiendish for Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Oh, no, my dear; you’re quite wrong there. I’m sure Nicky doesn’t care a damn.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It’s difficult to tell with Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>He’s divinely selfish; all amusing people are.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Did you hear him play in Paris?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Yes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Well?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Erratic⁠—one or two things perfect, but he’s slovenly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>He only takes things seriously in spurts, but still he’s very young.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Do you really think that’s a good excuse.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No, I’m afraid not, especially when so much depends on it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>What does depend on it?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Everything⁠—his life’s happiness.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Don’t be so terribly intense, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It’s true.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I’m quite sure Nicky will be perfectly happy as long as he goes on attracting people; he loves being attractive.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Naturally, he’s Florence’s son.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Such an exciting thing to be.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You don’t believe Nicky’s got anything in him at all, do you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">lightly</i>
						</p>
						<p>I don’t think it matters, anyway.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I do.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>But you’ve got a loving nature, Helen. I always know it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Nicky hasn’t had a chance.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Nonsense⁠—he’s had everything he wanted ever since the day he was born, and he’ll go on wasting his opportunities until he dies.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Quite possibly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Well, there you are then.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>He may have had everything he wanted, but he’s had none of the things he really needs.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Are you talking socially or spiritually?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’re quite right, Pawnie, you wouldn’t be so beautifully preserved if you’d wasted any of your valuable time or sincerity.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I forgive you for that, Helen, freely.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Thank you so much.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>You must realize one thing, everyone is sacrificed to Florence⁠—it’s as it should be⁠—of course, she’s a couple of hundred years too late⁠—she ought to have been a flaunting, intriguing King’s mistress, with black page boys and jade baths and things too divine⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Announcing</i>
						</p>
						<p>Miss Hibbert.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara Hibbert</b>⁠—she is affected, but quite well-dressed. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>My <i>dears</i>. Isn’t Florence back <i>yet</i>?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No, we’re waiting for her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>You look harassed, Clara.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I am harassed.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Why?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I’m singing to-night for Laura Tennant⁠—she’s giving a dreadful reception at her dreadful house for some dreadful Ambassador⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>How dreadful!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>No one will listen to me, of course⁠—they’ll all be far too busy avoiding the Cup and searching for the Champagne.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>What are you singing?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>One Gabriel Faure, two Reynaldo Hahn’s and an Aria.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Which Aria?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I can’t think, but my accompanist will know⁠—I’ve got a frightful headache.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Why don’t you take off your hat?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>My dear, I daren’t⁠—I’ve just had my hair done⁠—I suppose you haven’t got a “Cachet Faivre,” either of you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No, but Florence has, I expect⁠—Preston will know where they are⁠—ring the bell, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Ringing bell</i>
						</p>
						<p>My poor Clara⁠—I do hope your singing to-night will justify the fuss you’re making this afternoon.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Don’t be so <i>brutal</i>, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Is Gregory going with you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Of <i>course</i>⁠—I <i>never</i> sing unless he’s there⁠—he gives me such marvelous moral support.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>“Moral” is hardly the word <i>I</i> should have chosen, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Do you know if Mrs. Lancaster has any “Cachet Faivre” anywhere?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Yes, ma’am⁠—I think so.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td><i>Do</i> get me one, Preston, I’m suffering <i>tortures</i>.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Very well, miss.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Preston has such wonderful poise, hasn’t she?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>She needs it in this house.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I do wish Florence would hurry up. I want to borrow her green fan. I’ve got a new Patou frock that positively <i>demands</i> it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>She can’t be long now.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I suppose I daren’t ask Preston for the fan and creep away with it?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I shouldn’t, if I were you⁠—Florence is very touchy over that sort of thing.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>She promised it to me ages ago.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Surely there isn’t such a desperate hurry? You won’t be singing until about half-past eleven.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Petulantly</i>
						</p>
						<p>My <i>dear</i>, I’ve got to <i>rehearse</i>⁠—I don’t know a <i>word</i>⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> with a “Cachet Faivre” and a glass of water.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>You’re a <i>saint</i>, Preston⁠—thank you a <i>thousand</i> times⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Soak it a little first, dear, or you’ll choke, and I should <i>detest</i> that.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</b> soaks “Cachet” and then swallows it. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Now I must lie down <i>flat</i>⁠—get out of the way, Helen.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Perhaps you’d like us <i>both</i> to go <i>right</i> out of the room and sit in the <i>hall</i>?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>No, Pawnie, I should never expect the least consideration from you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She lies down flat on the divan, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</b> arranges cushions for her.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Thank you, Helen darling⁠—I shall always come to you whenever I’m ill.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>That <i>will</i> be nice.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence Lancaster</b> followed by <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom Veryan</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</b> is brilliantly dressed almost to the point of being “outré.” Her face still retains the remnants of great beauty. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b> is athletic and good-looking. One feels he is good at games and extremely bad at everything else.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Helen⁠—Pawnie, have you been here long?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>No, only a few hours.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>My dear. I’m so frightfully sorry⁠—we’ve been held up for ages in the traffic. Davis is a congenital idiot. Always manages to get to a turning just as the policeman puts out his hand. No initiative whatever. What’s happened to Clara? Has she been run over?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>No, dear, I’ve got a frightful head.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Pawnie, you know Tom, don’t you?⁠—Tom Veryan, Mr. Quentin, I’m sure you’ll adore each other.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shaking hands</i>
						</p>
						<p>How are you?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Very well, thank you⁠—how sweet of you to ask me?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Is there anything I can do, Clara?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Yes, dear, lend me your green fan for to-night.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>All right⁠—but you <i>won’t</i> get too carried away with it, will you, dear? I should hate the feathers to come out. Does anyone want any tea?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No thanks, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Cocktails, then?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>It’s too early.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Ringing bell</i>
						</p>
						<p>It’s never too early for a cocktail.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I should like to go quite quietly into a convent and never see anybody again ever⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Gregory would be bored stiff in a convent.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>We’ve just been to a most frightful Charity <i>matinée</i>. Nothing but inaudible speeches from dreary old actors, and leading ladies nudging one another all over the stage. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> enters.</i> Cocktails, Preston, and ask Barker to wrap up my green fan for Miss Hibbert to take away with her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Very good, ma’am.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>You’re an angel, Florence⁠—I think I’ll sit up now.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Do, dear, then Tom will be able to sit down.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sitting up</i>
						</p>
						<p>I really do feel most peculiar.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>You look far from normal, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>If Pawnie’s rude to me any more I shall burst into tears.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Tom, give me a cigarette.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Here are some.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No, Tom has a special rather hearty kind that I adore.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Lend me your lip stick, Helen; mine has sunk down into itself.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Here you are.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>What a lovely color! I look far prettier than I feel.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b></i>
						</p>
						<p>Thank you, angel.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>I shan’t be able to get down to the house until Saturday evening, Florence⁠—I’m seeing Gregory off to Newcastle.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Why Newcastle?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>His home’s just near there⁠—isn’t it too awful for him?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Well, wire me the time of your train, won’t you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>Of course, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’re smelling divinely, Florence. What is it?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Flicking her handkerchief</i>
						</p>
						<p>It is good, isn’t it?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>“Narcisse Noir” of Caron. I use it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes, you would, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> with parcel.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Here is the fan, miss.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking it</i>
						</p>
						<p>Thank you <i>so</i> much⁠—you are sweet, Florence. A fan gives me such a feeling of <i>security</i> when I’m singing modern stuff. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> goes out.</i> I must rush now⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Don’t you want a cocktail before you go?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clara</td>
					<td>No, darling⁠—I should only hiccup all the evening. Good-bye, you’ve been <i>such</i> a comfort⁠—good-bye, Helen⁠—Pawnie, you will be nicer to me over the week-end, won’t you? I shall be <i>so</i> depressed, what with Gregory going away and everything⁠—Good-bye, Tom⁠—I shall dine in bed and give way at every pore⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Poor Clara⁠—she eternally labors under the delusion that she really matters.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>We all do that a little.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing</i>
						</p>
						<p>You’re awfully cruel to her, Pawnie.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>She upsets my vibrations.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Before glass</i>
						</p>
						<p>I’ve taken a sudden hatred to this hat. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She takes it off.</i> That’s better⁠—are you going to the “New Elaine” to-night, either of you?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I’m not⁠—but Pawnie is, of course.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>It’s going to be <i>amazing</i>⁠—what a cast, my dear! Marvelous Selwyn Steele, Nora Dean, and that perfect woman, Lily Burfield⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I can’t stand her, she always over-acts.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Incensed</i>
						</p>
						<p>How <i>can</i> you, Helen! Did you see her in “Simple Faith”?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Yes, unfortunately.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Oh, you’re really too tiresome for words!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Her technique creaks like machinery.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>It’s sacrilege⁠—she’s too, too marvelous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> with a tray of cocktails. All help themselves.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What do you think about it, Tom?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>I’ve never seen her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes, you have. About three months ago, at the Comedy.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Oh.⁠ ⁠… I don’t remember.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Don’t remember! An artist like that! Good God, it’s agony!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’ll look awfully tired at dinner-time, Pawnie, if you don’t calm down a little.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>This is special⁠—my own invention.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Absolutely delicious.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>A bit too sweet.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Tom, <i>darling</i>, don’t be so taciturn⁠—he’s always taciturn after a <i>matinée</i>.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>When’s Nicky coming back?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>To-morrow. Isn’t it too divine? He’s been away for a whole year, but I saw him for a moment on my way through Paris last month.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Has he been working hard?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I suppose so, but you know what Nicky is⁠—bless his heart!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>I heard him play at Yvonne Mirabeau’s.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>She’s a loathsome woman, isn’t she?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Not as bad as that.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>She’s a half-wit. I can’t bear half-wits.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>She goes on so dreadfully about things⁠—devastating.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Funny Nicky liking her so much.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Only because she keeps on saying how wonderful he is⁠—that always appeals to Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>How old is he now?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Twenty-four. Isn’t it absurd to think I have such a grown-up son⁠—old General Fenwick said last Thursday that⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The telephone rings; she goes to it.</i> Hallo⁠—hallo! Yes, my dear. How are you?⁠ ⁠… Yes, so am I, simply worn out.⁠ ⁠… No. When? How perfectly marvelous!⁠ ⁠… No, dear, it’s a prescription; but I can let you have a little in a jar.⁠ ⁠… Quite easy. All you do is just rub it on at night.⁠ ⁠… Don’t be so silly.⁠ ⁠… Not in the least; if you send the car round that will be all right.⁠ ⁠… Very well.⁠ ⁠… Good-bye, darling. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She hangs up receiver.</i> I give Clara Hibbert ten for stupidity. Don’t you, Helen?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>A hundred and ten.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Ten’s the limit.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>I say, Florence⁠—I think I’d better be getting along if I’ve got to be dressed and back here by half-past seven⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You’ve got half an hour.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>That’s not very much.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>The car’s outside⁠ ⁠… take it and send it straight back.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Can it drop me, Florence dear? I always feel so much richer in your car than anyone else’s.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Of course, Pawnie.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The telephone rings again.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At telephone</i>
						</p>
						<p>Hallo!⁠ ⁠… Yes⁠ ⁠… speaking.⁠ ⁠… How do you do⁠—?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Good-bye, Helen. It’s been divine⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Ring me up at tea-time to-morrow.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>How perfectly sweet of you!⁠ ⁠… Now, now, really.⁠ ⁠… Well, naturally, if you persist in saying such charming things⁠ ⁠… <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">laughing gayly</i>⁠ ⁠… What nonsense!⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Good-bye, Florence⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She puts her hand over mouthpiece</i>
						</p>
						<p>It’s that awful General Fenwick.⁠ ⁠… Good-bye, Pawnie dear. You’re coming down to the house on Friday?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Yes; too lovely⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Helen’s coming by the five-o’clock⁠—you’d better travel together.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>Perfect. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b>.</i> Are you ready?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Quite.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pawnie</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">As they go out</i>
						</p>
						<p>You <i>can</i> drop me first, can’t you? I’m not as young as I was⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At telephone</i>
						</p>
						<p>Please forgive me. People rushing in and out, this house grows more like a railway station every day.⁠ ⁠… Now, General, that was a deliberate compliment. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She laughs.</i> Ridiculous man.⁠ ⁠… Very well.⁠ ⁠… Good-bye. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She hangs up receiver.</i> My God! ten for dreariness!</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>He’s not a bad old thing.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No, but he tries to be, and that’s what’s so frightful. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Arranging her hair before glass.</i> I look like Death.⁠ ⁠… Isn’t Tom a darling?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Yes, dear, without being aggressively brilliant.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I’m afraid, Helen, you’re getting rather bitter.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Nonsense.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It’s silly to be sarcastic about Tom.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It’s better than being maudlin about him.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I don’t know what you mean, dear. I’m not in the least maudlin, and never have been about anybody. I sometimes wish I could be⁠—I’m too hard.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking a cigarette</i>
						</p>
						<p>Tom will let you down.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Let me down? Why⁠ ⁠… how⁠ ⁠… I don’t understand⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’re more in love with him than he is with you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Don’t be so <i>absurd</i>, Helen.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It’s true.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Complacently</i>
						</p>
						<p>He adores me⁠—worships me⁠—he’s never seen anyone like me before in his life. I’m something strange⁠ ⁠… exotic⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’re more in love with him than he is with you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You’re getting on my nerves to-day, Helen.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You do see that I’m right, don’t you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>If you knew some of the things he’s said to me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I can guess them.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>That boy was utterly unawakened until he met me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>He’s very young.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I’ve taught him⁠—everything.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Or nothing.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Helen, I believe you’re jealous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Don’t be a fool.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I wish I hadn’t this fatal knack of seeing through people.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>How’s David?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I don’t know. He ought to be home soon.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Doesn’t he ever suspect anything?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Of course not⁠—he adores me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>It seems so strange not to see⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I’m devoted to David⁠—I’d do anything for him, anything in the world⁠—but he’s grown old and I’ve kept young; it does muddle things up so. I can’t help having a temperament, can I?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Temperament.⁠ ⁠… No.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>David’s always loved me and never understood me⁠—you see, I’m such an extraordinary <i>mixture</i>. I have so many <i>sides</i> to my character. I adore being at home and running the house and looking after David and Nicky⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You don’t exactly overdo it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Well, Nicky’s been away for such ages. Also, one must be in London for the season. You can’t expect me to bury myself in the country indefinitely. I shall be there practically all through the spring and summer.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Lovely tennis parties and cricket weeks and things⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Certainly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kissing her</i>
						</p>
						<p>You’re a divine creature, Florence.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Basking</i>
						</p>
						<p>Am I? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The telephone rings.</i> Hallo!⁠ ⁠… Yes⁠—speaking. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</b> in a whisper.</i> It’s Inez Zulieta. I never went to her recital.⁠ ⁠… Inez <i>darling</i>, I never recognized your voice.⁠ ⁠… Didn’t you get my note?⁠ ⁠… It was absolutely true, I was in agony.⁠ ⁠… Inez, don’t be angry. If you only knew how I longed for the sound of your wonderful, wonderful voice.⁠ ⁠… Darling.⁠ ⁠… Inez, don’t be so cruel.⁠ ⁠… To-morrow, then. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She hangs up receiver.</i> I do wish Inez wasn’t so persistent.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You never stop encouraging her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Oh, Helen, I’m so tired of everyone.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Except Tom?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes, except Tom; he’s such a darling.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>How do you think he and Nicky will get on?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Marvelously⁠—Tom loves music.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>He says he does.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>My dear, I took him to that Russian thing the other day and he sat entranced from beginning to end.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Poor Nicky!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Why do you say that?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Because I sometimes feel it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suddenly furious</i>
						</p>
						<p>Oh, I wonder why we’re such friends⁠—we’re so opposite⁠—you don’t understand me a bit. I used to think you did, but you’ve been different lately⁠—unsympathetic.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>No, I haven’t.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes, you have⁠—over Tom⁠—I believe you’re in love with him yourself.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling</i>
						</p>
						<p>No⁠—it isn’t that.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Anyhow, you can’t bear him being in love with me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I don’t think he is⁠—really. I quite realize that he <i>was</i> very violently infatuated, but that is wearing off a bit now. I’m beginning to see him as he is.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No, no, it’s not true⁠—you don’t understand⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>We <i>are</i> friends, Florence, though we’re so “opposite.” Do you really know the truth⁠—inside you? Or is all this shrill vanity real?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What’s the matter with you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>You’re ten years older than I am, but when I’m your age I shall be twenty years older than you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td><i>Darling</i>, how deliciously involved⁠—what <i>can</i> you mean by that?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I mean, I think it’s silly not to grow old when the time comes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She rises and goes towards door.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Outraged</i>
						</p>
						<p>Helen! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">There is suddenly heard a violent knocking at the front door.</i> What on earth is that?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">There is a noise outside, then the door bursts open and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</b> enters. He is extremely well-dressed in traveling clothes. He is tall and pale, with thin, nervous hands.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Nicky!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Mother!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He embraces her.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>But I’d no idea⁠—I thought you were coming to-morrow.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>No, to-day⁠—I wrote to you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I’m terribly, terribly excited.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Helen, dear, how are you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He kisses her.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Splendid, Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I can’t get over you arriving like this.⁠ ⁠… I never realized⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Silly⁠ ⁠… you’re looking awfully well.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Am I?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Wonderful, as usual.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I was talking to George Morrison only last Thursday⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>The man who wrote that fearful book?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It isn’t a fearful book, it’s brilliant⁠—anyhow, he absolutely refused to believe that I had a grown-up son.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>My dears, I must fly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Don’t go yet.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>I must⁠—I’m hours late as it is.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Be a little later, then.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Remember, five-o’clock train on Friday.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh, is she coming down to the house? Divine!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Helen</td>
					<td>Yes, if Florence is still speaking to me. Good-bye.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Have you been having a scene?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No, dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>She’s a darling⁠—Helen⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Extremely stupid and tactless sometimes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It doesn’t feel as though I’d been away at all.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I’ve missed you appallingly⁠—we had such a short time together in Paris. Did you enjoy all my letters?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I adored them⁠—so did John Bagot. I used to read most of them aloud to him. He’s mad on you⁠—saw your pictures in the <i>Tatler</i>, or something, and fell in love with it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Is he nice?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>He’s grand.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>We must all dine at the Embassy. When is he coming to England?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Not until after Christmas.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You must see my new photographs; they’re wonderful.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She takes large packet from desk.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s heavenly⁠—being back.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Look.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I don’t like that one.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>How can you, Nicky! Tom likes that one best of all.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Who’s Tom?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Tom Veryan⁠—he’s a dear; you’ll like him frightfully⁠—you know⁠—the very nicest type of Englishman.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I hate the very nicest type of Englishman.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Don’t be tiresome, Nicky; he’s only twenty-four, and they all think <i>so</i> well of him⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>All who?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>All his officers and people; he’s in the Brigade.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Holding photograph away from him and scrutinizing it through half-closed eyes</i>
						</p>
						<p>Now that one really is <i>enchanting</i>⁠—they’ve got your hair <i>beautifully</i>. Oh, yes, my dear, it’s perfect⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Complacently</i>
						</p>
						<p>It <i>is</i> good. She’s sweet⁠—Madame Henderson, she simply won’t hear of my paying for these⁠—she says it’s quite sufficient to be allowed to exhibit them in the window.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Is anyone dining this evening?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No. Oh, dear! I’d forgotten⁠—I’m dining out with Tom.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh⁠—I see.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Your first night home, too⁠—how perfectly fiendish. What a fool I am to have muddled it up.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It doesn’t matter, darling.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Oh, but it <i>does</i>. I wonder if we could get another seat⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Seat? What for?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>We’re going to the first night of “The New Elaine.” It’s going to be marvelous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Who’s in it?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Nora Dean and Selwyn Steele⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh, God!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It’s silly of you <i>always</i> to jeer at Selwyn Steele. He’ s a brilliant actor, if only he could get away from his wife.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I couldn’t bear him to-night, anyway; I’m tired. Is father home yet?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>No, I don’t think so. Oh, I do feel such a beast⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Don’t be silly⁠—honestly, I don’t mind a bit.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I know⁠—you have a nice quiet dinner here and join us at the Embassy afterwards.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Is it a late night?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes, they play the most heavenly tune there now⁠—Tom always makes them do it over and over again⁠—I’ll put it on⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She goes to the gramophone.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>How’s Iris?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>My dear, don’t speak of her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Why⁠—what’s she done?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>She’s been absolutely foul.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>In what way?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Every way⁠—I never trusted her, luckily⁠—Thank God I’ve got instincts about people⁠—listen, isn’t this marvelous⁠—She said the most filthy things to Gloria Craig about me⁠—I always knew she was insanely jealous, but there are limits. I loathe being at people’s beck and call.⁠ ⁠… Come and dance.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">As they dance</i>
						</p>
						<p>I’m sorry you’ve rowed⁠—I rather liked her⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Only because she kept on saying how wonderful you were.⁠ ⁠… She doesn’t know a thing about music really.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh yes, she does.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It’s merely bluff⁠—all that appreciation. <i>Darling</i>, how oddly you’re dancing.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s probably because we haven’t danced together for so long.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Anyhow, now she’s gone off to Monte Carlo with Violet Fenchurch⁠—silly fool⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">David Lancaster</b>. He is an elderly gray-haired pleasant man.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Delighted</i>
						</p>
						<p>Nicky⁠—my boy⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kissing him</i>
						</p>
						<p>Hallo, father⁠—</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>I thought⁠—Florence said⁠—to-morrow⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Mother muddled it up.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>You look rather tired.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I’m splendid. How’s everything?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>The same as usual. I’ve made lots of improvements down at the house.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>David thinks and talks of nothing but the farm⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>It’s beginning to pay a bit⁠—Peterson’s an awfully good man.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>We’ll make a grand tour of it on Sunday.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>Have you enjoyed yourself in Paris?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh yes, rather⁠—it’s a splendid place to work.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>It never struck me that way quite, but still⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Sophie de Molignac said Nicky’s playing had improved wonderfully.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>I’m so glad, Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I’ve been doing some Spanish stuff lately.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>I wish I knew more about it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Never mind, father.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>Come to my room and talk. I can’t bear that thing⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Father’s such a beast; he never will dance with me.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>Is the <i>Evening News</i> anywhere about?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Yes, here.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He gives it to him.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">David</td>
					<td>I’m so glad you’re home again, Nicky⁠—don’t forget⁠—come and talk.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>David’s so much happier in the country.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Why on earth doesn’t he retire and live at the house for good?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Work has become such a habit with him⁠—he’s always hated giving up habits.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Mother⁠—I’ve got something rather important to tell you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Darling, how thrilling! What is it?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I am engaged to be married.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Practically⁠—as much as one can be these days.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Nicky!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Don’t look so stricken.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>But, Nicky⁠—I never sort of visualized you being engaged, or married, or anything.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Why not?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You’re not old enough.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I’m twenty-four.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You don’t look it.⁠ ⁠… Thank God!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>What do you really feel about it, mother?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td><i>Darling</i>⁠—I hardly know what to say⁠—you’ve sprung it on me so suddenly. Who is she?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>A girl called Bunty Mainwaring.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What a silly name!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It isn’t at all⁠—it’s very attractive.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Is she an actress, or a student, or what?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Neither⁠—she is what is technically termed a “lady.”</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Do you think she’ll like me?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>She went mad over your photograph.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Which one?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>The “looking out of the window” one.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>That really is one of the best I’ve ever had done.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>She said you had the face of an heroic little boy.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What a <i>divine</i> thing to say!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She glances at herself in the glass.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>She does say divine things⁠—she’s supremely intelligent.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Is she in Paris?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>No, she came over with me to-day.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Where does she live?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Just round the corner in Carbury Square.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Near the Churchingtons.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s her mother’s house, but her mother’s away just now, so I asked her to change quickly and come on here.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Nicky!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Why not? I wanted you to see her as soon as possible.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Realizing parental responsibility</i>
						</p>
						<p>It’s an awful shock, you know.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Nonsense, mother⁠—you’re quite excited about it, really.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With determination</i>
						</p>
						<p>I shall be charming to her.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Then she’ll adore you at once⁠—probably too much, and I shall be jealous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You’d better both dine here together and come on to the Embassy. How old is she?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Twenty-three.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>What does she do?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Nothing much⁠—she writes things occasionally.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Where did you meet her?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>First of all at a party at Olive Lloyd-Kennedy’s.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I can’t bear Olive Lloyd-Kennedy⁠—she’s a cat.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Then I met her again at Marion Fawcett’s⁠—a frightful sort of reception affair⁠—she was staying with her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>She seems to move exclusively with my worst enemies. Is she pretty?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I don’t know⁠—I haven’t really noticed.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a touch of real feeling</i>
						</p>
						<p>Nicky darling, I do feel so extraordinary about it.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Why extraordinary?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It’s a milestone, isn’t it⁠—you being engaged? A definite milestone? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She catches sight of herself.</i> Look at my nose. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She powders it.</i> I do hope she’ll like me⁠—I must go and dress now; Tom is fetching me half-past seven. Bring her to my room when she comes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Don’t go for a minute.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>I must, really⁠—Tom will be furious.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh, damn Tom!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Oh, Nicky, <i>don’t</i> go and take one of your tiresome prejudices against him.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling</i>
						</p>
						<p>All right, I’ll try not to.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>He’s frightfully good-looking.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>And he adores music.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Now, then, mother⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>He does, honestly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Good.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>And he dances beautifully.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I shall never stop dancing with him.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>And he’s so good at games.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>He sounds adorable.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Of course, he needs knowing.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>So do I.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You will make an effort, though, darling, won’t you? For my sake!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Yes, mother.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>And we’ll all have a divine time together, Tom and me and you and what’s her name⁠—</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Bunty.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Oh yes, of course, Bunty.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Front door bell rings.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>This is her, I expect.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Do you feel wonderful about her?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Yes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>It is thrilling, isn’t it⁠—being in love?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Frowning a little</i>
						</p>
						<p>Yes.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Your father was right⁠—you look awfully tired, Nicky.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>What nonsense! I feel grand.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Announcing</i>
						</p>
						<p>Miss Mainwaring.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</b> comes in, very self-assured and well-dressed. She is more attractive than pretty in a boyish sort of way.</i>
						</p>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> goes out.</i>
						</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Bunty. You have been quick.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I’ve simply flown.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Bunty⁠ ⁠… here is mother.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Oh!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking both her hands</i>
						</p>
						<p>This is frightfully exciting, isn’t it?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She kisses her.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I’ve told her.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Are you furious?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Of course not. Why should I be? ’Specially now.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>It’s absolutely incredible, you being Nicky’s mother.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Am I anything like you thought I’d be?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Yes, exactly⁠—but I couldn’t believe it until I saw you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Take off that perfectly divine cloak and have a cigarette. I’ve got to rush and dress now, because I’m <i>terribly</i> late, but you’re dining here with Nicky and joining Tom Veryan and me at the Embassy afterwards.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Tom Veryan?⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Yes. Do you know him?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I did when I was a child⁠—if it’s the same one.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She takes off her cloak.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Effusively</i>
						</p>
						<p>Nicky⁠—I don’t feel extraordinary about it any more⁠—I’m <i>delighted</i>.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Angel.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>Perhaps Bunty would like to come down to the house on Friday for the week-end?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Oh yes! Marvelous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>It’s awfully sweet of you, Mrs. Lancaster.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>You must call me Florence; I can’t bear Mrs. Lancaster. I must fly; Tom will be here at any moment⁠—that’s him on the desk.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Going over to photograph</i>
						</p>
						<p>Yes⁠—it is the same one.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Florence</td>
					<td>
						<p>How too divine!⁠ ⁠…</p>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Telephone rings.</i>
						</p>
						<p>Hallo!⁠ ⁠… Yes, speaking!⁠ ⁠… Elsa darling, how are you?⁠ ⁠… What?⁠ ⁠… To-night?⁠ ⁠… How perfectly heavenly! Of course, I’d adore it.⁠ ⁠… Listen. Nicky’s just back from Paris. Can he come, too, with Bunty Mainwaring?⁠ ⁠… Yes, he’s here.⁠ ⁠… See you to-night, dear.⁠ ⁠…</p>
						<p>Here, Nicky, talk to Elsa.⁠ ⁠…</p>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She snatches up her hand-bag and fur coat and kisses <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</b> effusively.</i>
						</p>
						<p>I’m so glad about you and Nicky⁠—It’s too wonderful.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She rushes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At telephone</i>
						</p>
						<p>Hallo, Elsa.⁠ ⁠… I’d no idea you were in London. I’m terribly thrilled. My dear, you haven’t.⁠ ⁠… All those lovely tunes you played to me in Paris?⁠ ⁠… <i>How amazing!</i> I <i>am</i> glad.⁠ ⁠… Have you done anything with that Tango?⁠ ⁠… You must play it to-night; I want Bunty to hear it.⁠ ⁠… It is perfect, isn’t it?⁠ ⁠… Good-bye, dear. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He hangs up the receiver.</i> Bunty.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>What?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I’m terribly happy.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>So am I.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Do you remember how we planned all this⁠—coming home together⁠—and breaking it to mother⁠—and everything?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Rather.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Do you really like her?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I adore her⁠—she’s a perfect angel.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I told her your “heroic little boy” line; she loved it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>It’s true, you know⁠—rather defiant too⁠—laughing at Fate.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Doesn’t Paris seem ages away now?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>A different life altogether.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>That nasty little bit of Channel is such an enormous gulf, really. Did you put that dress on on purpose.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Smiling</i>
						</p>
						<p>Perhaps.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>You are a devil.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>It’s such fun being reminded of things.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>And such agony, too.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Nicky darling⁠—why agony?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s always agony being in love, and I started loving you in that dress.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Did you?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Don’t pretend you didn’t know.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I suppose one always knows⁠—really.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>From the very first moment.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Yes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>A sort of spark.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Your playing helped a lot.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I meant it to.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Calculating pig.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Have a cigarette?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>All right.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He hands her box, and she takes one.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lighting her cigarette</i>
						</p>
						<p>I wish we weren’t so free.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Why? What do you mean?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I feel I should like to elope, or something violently romantic like that.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing</i>
						</p>
						<p>There wouldn’t be much point in it now, would there?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Perhaps not. How much do you love me?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I don’t know.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s fun analyzing one’s emotions.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Marvelous fun.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>And a comfort, too, when things go wrong⁠—but it kills sentiment stone dead.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>A good job, too.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>You’re frightfully hard, Bunty.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Am I?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Much harder than me⁠—really.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>You’ve got so much hysteria.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>I can’t help it.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Of course not; it’s your temperament. You burst out suddenly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Not so badly as I used to.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>You’re growing older.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>God, yes! Isn’t it foul?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Hell, my dear.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>It’s funny how mother’s generation always longed to be old when they were young, and we strain every nerve to keep young.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>That’s because we see what’s coming so much more clearly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Wouldn’t it be terrible to know <i>exactly</i>?⁠—I feel frightened sometimes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Why?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>We’re all so hectic and nervy.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>It doesn’t matter⁠—it probably only means we shan’t live so long.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Suddenly</i>
						</p>
						<p>Shut up⁠—shut up.⁠ ⁠…</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Announcing</i>
						</p>
						<p>Mr. Veryan.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</b> greets him and shakes hands. Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b>.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>How are you? I’m Nicky⁠—I came over to-day instead of to-morrow.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Oh!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Do you know Bunty Mainwaring?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Bunty⁠—I say⁠—I am glad.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They shake hands warmly.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>We’d better have some cocktails.</p>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes to the door and shouts.</i>
						</p>
						<p>Preston⁠ ⁠… bring us some cocktails.⁠ ⁠…</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>This <i>is</i> jolly. I didn’t know what had become of you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I’ve been living in Paris a good deal.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>How many years ago is it since we?⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>During the War. The last time I saw you you were at Sandhurst.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Such a pretty place.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>You’ve hardly altered a bit⁠—more grown up, of course.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>All this is most affecting.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Bunty and I used to know each other awfully well.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>What fun!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Warningly</i>
						</p>
						<p>Nicky.⁠ ⁠…</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>But it is⁠—it’s thrilling⁠—there’s nothing so charming as a reunion.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Nicky and I have been traveling all day.⁠ ⁠… Boats and trains get on his nerves.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>When the cocktails come, tell Preston to bring mine to me in father’s room.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Nicky, don’t be so silly.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>Surely it’s not silly to want to talk to my aged father after a year’s debauch in Paris? I fail to see why you should have the monopoly of reunions.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Well, don’t be long.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Cheerio!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nicky</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Crossly</i>
						</p>
						<p>Oh, God!</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>What’s up?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>These temperamental musicians.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Silly ass.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>He isn’t really⁠—he’s only jealous.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Why⁠ ⁠… is he?⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>We’re by way of being engaged.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>What?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Why not?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Are you⁠ ⁠… are you in love with him?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lightly</i>
						</p>
						<p>Yes⁠—isn’t it damnable?</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Good Lord!</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He laughs.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>What are you laughing at?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>It seems so funny you being in love with that sort of chap.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>What do you mean by “that sort of chap”?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Oh⁠—I don’t know, that type seems so unlike you.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Type?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Yes, you know⁠—up in the air⁠—effeminate.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>You’re more bucolic than you used to be, Tom.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Here, I say.⁠ ⁠…</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</b> with cocktails.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Will you please take Mr. Nicky’s in to him in his father’s room?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Yes, miss.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Is Mrs. Lancaster nearly ready?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>I think so, sir.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Ask her to hurry. We shall be late.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Preston</td>
					<td>Yes, sir.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He goes out.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I can laugh now.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">She does so.</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Why?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>I’ve just realized something.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>What?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>We shall meet again⁠—over the week-end.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Are you coming down to the house?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>Yes.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>That’s splendid. Come for a tramp Sunday morning and we’ll talk.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>What about?</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>Oh, lots of things⁠—old times.</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Bunty</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Lifting her cocktail</i>
						</p>
						<p>Old times, Tom.</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom</td>
					<td>
						<p>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Doing the same</i>
						</p>
						<p>Cheerio!</p>
					</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td/>
					<td>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain</i>
					</td>
				</tr>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
