<p class="center lhtx"><span class="fs100">To</span><br/>
<span class="fs120">G. CALTHROP</span><br/>
<span class="fs80">WITH A GOOD DEAL OF GRATITUDE</span></p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<h2 class="nobreak" id="DRAMATIS_PERSON">DRAMATIS PERSONÆ</h2>
<ul>
<li><span class="smcap">Preston</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Helen Saville</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Pauncefort Quentin</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Florence Lancaster</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Tom Veryan</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Nicky Lancaster</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">David Lancaster</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Bunty Mainwaring</span></li>
<li><span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span></li>
</ul>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_1"/>[1]</span></p>
<p class="center p4 fs175">THE VORTEX</p>
<p class="center p1 fs150">ACT I</p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_3"/>[2-3]</span></p>
<p class="nobreak center p4 fs200">THE VORTEX</p>
<h2 class="nobreak" id="ACT_I">ACT I</h2>
<p><i>The scene is the drawing-room of</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Lancaster’s</span>
<i>flat in London. The colors and decoration are
on the verge of being original. The furniture is
simple but distinctly expensive.</i></p>
<p><i>Persons shown are</i> <span class="smcap">Helen Saville</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pauncefort
Quentin</span>. <span class="smcap">Helen Saville</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pauncefort
Quentin</span> <i>are shown in by</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>. <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>is a
smartly dressed woman of about thirty</i>. “<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>”
<i>is an elderly maiden gentleman</i>.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>I’m expecting Mrs. Lancaster in at any moment
now, ma’am.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Thank you, Preston, we’ll wait a little.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Shall I get you some tea?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_4"/>[4]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, thanks, we’ve already had some—give me a
cigarette, Pawnie; they’re in that box on the table.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>hands her cigarette box</i>. <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>goes
out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>It may be tiresome of me, but I think all this
coloring is oppressive.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You make such a “fetish” of house decoration,
Pawnie.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Wandering round the room</i>]</p>
<p>Not at all, but I do like things to be good and
right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Well, I don’t consider the new frieze in your
bathroom either good or right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>How can you, Helen! It’s too marvelous for
words. Parelli designed it specially for me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Personally, it would make me self-conscious to
sit in a bath surrounded by frisky gods and goddesses
all with such better figures than mine.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_5"/>[5]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I find it encouraging. This whole room is so
typical of Florence.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>In what way?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Every way. Look at the furniture.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>A little artificial perhaps, but quite harmless.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Dear Helen, you’re such a loyal friend.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’m very fond of Florence.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>We all are. Oh, my God, look at that lampshade!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I gave it to her last Christmas.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Wasn’t that a little naughty of you?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_6"/>[6]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I don’t see why; it’s extremely pretty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Too unrestrained. Such a bad example for the
<i>servants</i>. [<i>He takes up frame from desk.</i>] Who’s
this boy?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Tom Veryan. You must have seen him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Florence’s past, present, or future?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Present.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>He has that innocent look that never fails to
attract elderly women.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Don’t be a cat.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I wasn’t meaning Florence; she’s too divine to be
in any marked category.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I wonder.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_7"/>[7]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Oh, yes, Helen, deathless sort of magnetism, you
know.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I often wonder what will happen to Florence
eventually.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>My dear, I’m far too occupied in wondering
what’s going to happen to me to worry about other
people.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’ve always thought your course was quite clear,
Pawnie.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>However offensive that remark was intended to be,
Helen, I shall take it in the most complimentary
spirit.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’m sure you will.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I expect Florence will just go on and on, then
suddenly become quite beautifully old, and go on
and on still more.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_8"/>[8]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s too late now for her to become beautifully
old, I’m afraid. She’ll have to be young indefinitely.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I don’t suppose she’ll mind that, but it’s trying
for David.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>And fiendish for Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Oh, no, my dear; you’re quite wrong there. I’m
sure Nicky doesn’t care a damn.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s difficult to tell with Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>He’s divinely selfish; all amusing people are.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Did you hear him play in Paris?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Well?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_9"/>[9]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Erratic—one or two things perfect, but he’s
slovenly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He only takes things seriously in spurts, but still
he’s very young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Do you really think that’s a good excuse.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, I’m afraid not, especially when so much
depends on it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>What does depend on it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Everything—his life’s happiness.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Don’t be so terribly intense, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s true.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I’m quite sure Nicky will be perfectly happy as
long as he goes on attracting people; he loves being
attractive.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_10"/>[10]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Naturally, he’s Florence’s son.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Such an exciting thing to be.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You don’t believe Nicky’s got anything in him
at all, do you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> (<i>lightly</i>)</p>
<p>I don’t think it matters, anyway.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>But you’ve got a loving nature, Helen. I always
know it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Nicky hasn’t had a chance.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Nonsense—he’s had everything he wanted ever
since the day he was born, and he’ll go on wasting
his opportunities until he dies.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Quite possibly.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_11"/>[11]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Well, there you are then.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He may have had everything he wanted, but he’s
had none of the things he really needs.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Are you talking socially or spiritually?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re quite right, Pawnie, you wouldn’t be so
beautifully preserved if you’d wasted any of your
valuable time or sincerity.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I forgive you for that, Helen, freely.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Thank you so much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>You must realize one thing, everyone is sacrificed
to Florence—it’s as it should be—of course, she’s a
couple of hundred years too late—she ought to have
been a flaunting, intriguing King’s mistress, with
black page boys and jade baths and things too
divine——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_12"/>[12]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>[<i>Announcing</i>]</p>
<p>Miss Hibbert.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span>—<i>she is affected, but quite
well-dressed</i>. <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>goes out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>My <i>dears</i>. Isn’t Florence back <i>yet</i>?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, we’re waiting for her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>You look harassed, Clara.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I am harassed.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I’m singing to-night for Laura Tennant—she’s
giving a dreadful reception at her dreadful house for
some dreadful Ambassador——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>How dreadful!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_13"/>[13]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>No one will listen to me, of course—they’ll all be
far too busy avoiding the Cup and searching for the
Champagne.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>What are you singing?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>One Gabriel Faure, two Reynaldo Hahn’s and an
Aria.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Which Aria?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I can’t think, but my accompanist will know—I’ve
got a frightful headache.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why don’t you take off your hat?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>My dear, I daren’t—I’ve just had my hair done—I
suppose you haven’t got a “Cachet Faivre,”
either of you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, but Florence has, I expect—Preston will
know where they are—ring the bell, Pawnie.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_14"/>[14]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Ringing bell</i>]</p>
<p>My poor Clara—I do hope your singing to-night
will justify the fuss you’re making this afternoon.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Don’t be so <i>brutal</i>, Pawnie.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Is Gregory going with you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Of <i>course</i>—I <i>never</i> sing unless he’s there—he
gives me such marvelous moral support.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>“Moral” is hardly the word <i>I</i> should have chosen,
dear.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Do you know if Mrs. Lancaster has any “Cachet
Faivre” anywhere?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Yes, ma’am—I think so.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p><i>Do</i> get me one, Preston, I’m suffering <i>tortures</i>.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_15"/>[15]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Very well, miss.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Preston has such wonderful poise, hasn’t she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>She needs it in this house.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I do wish Florence would hurry up. I want to
borrow her green fan. I’ve got a new Patou frock
that positively <i>demands</i> it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>She can’t be long now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I suppose I daren’t ask Preston for the fan and
creep away with it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I shouldn’t, if I were you—Florence is very touchy
over that sort of thing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>She promised it to me ages ago.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_16"/>[16]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Surely there isn’t such a desperate hurry? You
won’t be singing until about half-past eleven.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>Petulantly</i>]</p>
<p>My <i>dear</i>, I’ve got to <i>rehearse</i>—I don’t know a
<i>word</i>——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Re-enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>with a “Cachet Faivre” and a
glass of water</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>You’re a <i>saint</i>, Preston—thank you a <i>thousand</i>
times——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Soak it a little first, dear, or you’ll choke, and I
should <i>detest</i> that.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Clara</span> <i>soaks “Cachet” and then swallows it</i>. <span class="smcap">Preston</span>
<i>goes out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Now I must lie down <i>flat</i>—get out of the way,
Helen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Perhaps you’d like us <i>both</i> to go <i>right</i> out of the
room and sit in the <i>hall</i>?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_17"/>[17]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>No, Pawnie, I should never expect the least consideration
from you.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She lies down flat on the divan</i>, <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>arranges
cushions for her</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Thank you, Helen darling—I shall always come
to you whenever I’m ill.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>That <i>will</i> be nice.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Florence Lancaster</span> <i>followed by</i> <span class="smcap">Tom Veryan</span>.
<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>is brilliantly dressed almost to
the point of being “outré.” Her face still retains
the remnants of great beauty.</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>is
athletic and good-looking. One feels he is good
at games and extremely bad at everything else.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen—Pawnie, have you been here long?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>No, only a few hours.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>My dear. I’m so frightfully sorry—we’ve been
held up for ages in the traffic. Davis is a congenital<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_18"/>[18]</span>
idiot. Always manages to get to a turning just as
the policeman puts out his hand. No initiative whatever.
What’s happened to Clara? Has she been
run over?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>No, dear, I’ve got a frightful head.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Pawnie, you know Tom, don’t you?—Tom Veryan,
Mr. Quentin, I’m sure you’ll adore each other.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Shaking hands</i>]</p>
<p>How are you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Very well, thank you—how sweet of you to ask
me?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Is there anything I can do, Clara?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Yes, dear, lend me your green fan for to-night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>All right—but you <i>won’t</i> get too carried away
with it, will you, dear? I should hate the feathers
to come out. Does anyone want any tea?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_19"/>[19]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No thanks, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Cocktails, then?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>It’s too early.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Ringing bell</i>]</p>
<p>It’s never too early for a cocktail.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I should like to go quite quietly into a convent
and never see anybody again ever——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Gregory would be bored stiff in a convent.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>We’ve just been to a most frightful Charity
<i>matinée</i>. Nothing but inaudible speeches from
dreary old actors, and leading ladies nudging one
another all over the stage. [<span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>enters</i>.] Cocktails,
Preston, and ask Barker to wrap up my green
fan for Miss Hibbert to take away with her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Very good, ma’am.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_20"/>[20]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>You’re an angel, Florence—I think I’ll sit up now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do, dear, then Tom will be able to sit down.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sitting up</i>]</p>
<p>I really do feel most peculiar.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>You look far from normal, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>If Pawnie’s rude to me any more I shall burst into
tears.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Tom, give me a cigarette.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Here are some.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, Tom has a special rather hearty kind that I
adore.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Lend me your lip stick, Helen; mine has sunk
down into itself.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_21"/>[21]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Here you are.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>What a lovely color! I look far prettier than
I feel.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>]</p>
</div>
<p>Thank you, angel.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I shan’t be able to get down to the house until
Saturday evening, Florence—I’m seeing Gregory off
to Newcastle.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Why Newcastle?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>His home’s just near there—isn’t it too awful for
him?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Well, wire me the time of your train, won’t you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Of course, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re smelling divinely, Florence. What is it?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_22"/>[22]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Flicking her handkerchief</i>]</p>
<p>It is good, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>“Narcisse Noir” of Caron. I use it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, you would, Pawnie.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Re-enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>with parcel</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Here is the fan, miss.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking it</i>]</p>
<p>Thank you <i>so</i> much—you are sweet, Florence. A
fan gives me such a feeling of <i>security</i> when I’m
singing modern stuff. [<span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>goes out</i>.] I must
rush now——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t you want a cocktail before you go?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>No, darling—I should only hiccup all the evening.
Good-bye, you’ve been <i>such</i> a comfort—good-bye,
Helen—Pawnie, you will be nicer to me over the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_23"/>[23]</span>
week-end, won’t you? I shall be <i>so</i> depressed, what
with Gregory going away and everything—Good-bye,
Tom—I shall dine in bed and give way at every
pore——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Poor Clara—she eternally labors under the delusion
that she really matters.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>We all do that a little.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
<p>You’re awfully cruel to her, Pawnie.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>She upsets my vibrations.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Before glass</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>I’ve taken a sudden hatred to this hat. [<i>She
takes it off.</i>] That’s better—are you going to the
“New Elaine” to-night, either of you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’m not—but Pawnie is, of course.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_24"/>[24]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>It’s going to be <i>amazing</i>—what a cast, my dear!
Marvelous Selwyn Steele, Nora Dean, and that perfect
woman, Lily Burfield——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I can’t stand her, she always over-acts.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Incensed</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>How <i>can</i> you, Helen! Did you see her in “Simple
Faith”?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, unfortunately.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Oh, you’re really too tiresome for words!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Her technique creaks like machinery.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>It’s sacrilege—she’s too, too marvelous.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>with a tray of cocktails. All help
themselves.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What do you think about it, Tom?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_25"/>[25]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I’ve never seen her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, you have. About three months ago, at the
Comedy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh.... I don’t remember.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Don’t remember! An artist like that! Good God,
it’s agony!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’ll look awfully tired at dinner-time, Pawnie,
if you don’t calm down a little.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>This is special—my own invention.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Absolutely delicious.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>A bit too sweet.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Tom, <i>darling</i>, don’t be so taciturn—he’s always
taciturn after a <i>matinée</i>.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_26"/>[26]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>When’s Nicky coming back?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>To-morrow. Isn’t it too divine? He’s been away
for a whole year, but I saw him for a moment on my
way through Paris last month.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Has he been working hard?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I suppose so, but you know what Nicky is—bless
his heart!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I heard him play at Yvonne Mirabeau’s.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She’s a loathsome woman, isn’t she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Not as bad as that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>She’s a half-wit. I can’t bear half-wits.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_27"/>[27]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She goes on so dreadfully about things—devastating.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Funny Nicky liking her so much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Only because she keeps on saying how wonderful
he is—that always appeals to Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>How old is he now?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Twenty-four. Isn’t it absurd to think I have
such a grown-up son—old General Fenwick said last
Thursday that—— [<i>The telephone rings; she goes
to it.</i>] Hallo—hallo! Yes, my dear. How are you?...
Yes, so am I, simply worn out.... No.
When? How perfectly marvelous!... No, dear,
it’s a prescription; but I can let you have a little in
a jar.... Quite easy. All you do is just rub it on
at night.... Don’t be so silly.... Not in the
least; if you send the car round that will be all
right.... Very well.... Good-bye, darling.
[<i>She hangs up receiver.</i>] I give Clara Hibbert ten
for stupidity. Don’t you, Helen?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_28"/>[28]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>A hundred and ten.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Ten’s the limit.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I say, Florence—I think I’d better be getting
along if I’ve got to be dressed and back here by half-past seven——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’ve got half an hour.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>That’s not very much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>The car’s outside ... take it and send it straight
back.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Can it drop me, Florence dear? I always feel
so much richer in your car than anyone else’s.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Of course, Pawnie.</p>
<p>[<i>The telephone rings again.</i>]</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_29"/>[29]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>At telephone</i>]</p>
<p>Hallo!... Yes ... speaking.... How do you
do——?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Good-bye, Helen. It’s been divine——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Ring me up at tea-time to-morrow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How perfectly sweet of you!... Now, now,
really.... Well, naturally, if you persist in saying
such charming things ... [<i>laughing gayly</i>] ...
What nonsense!...</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Good-bye, Florence——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>She puts her hand over mouthpiece</i>]</p>
<p>It’s that awful General Fenwick.... Good-bye,
Pawnie dear. You’re coming down to the house on
Friday?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Yes; too lovely——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_30"/>[30]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen’s coming by the five-o’clock—you’d better
travel together.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Perfect. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>.] Are you ready?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Quite.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>As they go out</i>]</p>
<p>You <i>can</i> drop me first, can’t you? I’m not as
young as I was——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>At telephone</i>]</p>
<p>Please forgive me. People rushing in and out,
this house grows more like a railway station every
day.... Now, General, that was a deliberate compliment.
[<i>She laughs.</i>] Ridiculous man....
Very well.... Good-bye. [<i>She hangs up receiver.</i>]
My God! ten for dreariness!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He’s not a bad old thing.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_31"/>[31]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, but he tries to be, and that’s what’s so frightful.
[<i>Arranging her hair before glass.</i>] I look like
Death.... Isn’t Tom a darling?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, dear, without being aggressively brilliant.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m afraid, Helen, you’re getting rather bitter.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Nonsense.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s silly to be sarcastic about Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s better than being maudlin about him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what you mean, dear. I’m not in
the least maudlin, and never have been about anybody.
I sometimes wish I could be—I’m too hard.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking a cigarette</i>]</p>
<p>Tom will let you down.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_32"/>[32]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Let me down? Why ... how ... I don’t
understand——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re more in love with him than he is with you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t be so <i>absurd</i>, Helen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s true.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Complacently</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>He adores me—worships me—he’s never seen anyone
like me before in his life. I’m something strange
... exotic——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re more in love with him than he is with you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re getting on my nerves to-day, Helen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You do see that I’m right, don’t you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>If you knew some of the things he’s said to me.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_33"/>[33]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I can guess them.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>That boy was utterly unawakened until he met me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He’s very young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’ve taught him—everything.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Or nothing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen, I believe you’re jealous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Don’t be a fool.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I wish I hadn’t this fatal knack of seeing through
people.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>How’s David?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know. He ought to be home soon.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_34"/>[34]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Doesn’t he ever suspect anything?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Of course not—he adores me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It seems so strange not to see——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m devoted to David—I’d do anything for him,
anything in the world—but he’s grown old and I’ve
kept young; it does muddle things up so. I can’t
help having a temperament, can I?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Temperament.... No.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>David’s always loved me and never understood me—you
see, I’m such an extraordinary <i>mixture</i>. I
have so many <i>sides</i> to my character. I adore being
at home and running the house and looking after
David and Nicky——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You don’t exactly overdo it.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_35"/>[35]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Well, Nicky’s been away for such ages. Also,
one must be in London for the season. You can’t
expect me to bury myself in the country indefinitely.
I shall be there practically all through the spring
and summer.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Lovely tennis parties and cricket weeks and
things——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Certainly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Kissing her</i>]</p>
<p>You’re a divine creature, Florence.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Basking</i>]</p>
<p>Am I? [<i>The telephone rings.</i>] Hallo!...
Yes—speaking. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>in a whisper</i>.] It’s
Inez Zulieta. I never went to her recital.... Inez
<i>darling</i>, I never recognized your voice.... Didn’t
you get my note?... It was absolutely true, I was
in agony.... Inez, don’t be angry. If you only
knew how I longed for the sound of your wonderful,
wonderful voice.... Darling.... Inez, don’t be<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_36"/>[36]</span>
so cruel.... To-morrow, then. [<i>She hangs up
receiver.</i>] I do wish Inez wasn’t so persistent.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You never stop encouraging her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh, Helen, I’m so tired of everyone.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Except Tom?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, except Tom; he’s such a darling.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>How do you think he and Nicky will get on?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Marvelously—Tom loves music.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He says he does.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>My dear, I took him to that Russian thing the
other day and he sat entranced from beginning to
end.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_37"/>[37]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Poor Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why do you say that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Because I sometimes feel it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Suddenly furious</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, I wonder why we’re such friends—we’re so
opposite—you don’t understand me a bit. I used
to think you did, but you’ve been different lately—unsympathetic.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, I haven’t.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, you have—over Tom—I believe you’re in love
with him yourself.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
<p>No—it isn’t that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Anyhow, you can’t bear him being in love with me.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_38"/>[38]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I don’t think he is—really. I quite realize that
he <i>was</i> very violently infatuated, but that is wearing
off a bit now. I’m beginning to see him as he is....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, no, it’s not true—you don’t understand——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>We <i>are</i> friends, Florence, though we’re so “opposite.”
Do you really know the truth—inside you?
Or is all this shrill vanity real?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What’s the matter with you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re ten years older than I am, but when I’m
your age I shall be twenty years older than you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p><i>Darling</i>, how deliciously involved—what <i>can</i> you
mean by that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I mean, I think it’s silly not to grow old when the
time comes.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She rises and goes towards door.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_39"/>[39]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Outraged</i>]</p>
<p>Helen! [<i>There is suddenly heard a violent knocking
at the front door.</i>] What on earth is that?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>There is a noise outside, then the door bursts open
and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>enters. He is extremely well-dressed
in traveling clothes. He is tall and pale, with
thin, nervous hands.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He embraces her.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>But I’d no idea—I thought you were coming to-morrow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, to-day—I wrote to you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m terribly, terribly excited.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Helen, dear, how are you?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He kisses her.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_40"/>[40]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Splendid, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I can’t get over you arriving like this.... I
never realized——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Silly ... you’re looking awfully well.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Am I?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Wonderful, as usual.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I was talking to George Morrison only last Thursday——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>The man who wrote that fearful book?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It isn’t a fearful book, it’s brilliant—anyhow, he
absolutely refused to believe that I had a grown-up
son.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>My dears, I must fly.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_41"/>[41]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t go yet.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I must—I’m hours late as it is.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Be a little later, then.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Remember, five-o’clock train on Friday.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, is she coming down to the house? Divine!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, if Florence is still speaking to me. Good-bye.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Have you been having a scene?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s a darling—Helen——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_42"/>[42]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Extremely stupid and tactless sometimes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It doesn’t feel as though I’d been away at all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’ve missed you appallingly—we had such a short
time together in Paris. Did you enjoy all my
letters?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I adored them—so did John Bagot. I used to read
most of them aloud to him. He’s mad on you—saw
your pictures in the <i>Tatler</i>, or something, and fell
in love with it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Is he nice?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>He’s grand.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>We must all dine at the Embassy. When is he
coming to England?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not until after Christmas.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_43"/>[43]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You must see my new photographs; they’re wonderful.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She takes large packet from desk.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s heavenly—being back.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Look.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t like that one.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How can you, Nicky! Tom likes that one best
of all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Who’s Tom?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Tom Veryan—he’s a dear; you’ll like him frightfully—you
know—the very nicest type of Englishman.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I hate the very nicest type of Englishman.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_44"/>[44]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t be tiresome, Nicky; he’s only twenty-four,
and they all think <i>so</i> well of him——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>All who?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>All his officers and people; he’s in the Brigade.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Holding photograph away from him and scrutinizing
it through half-closed eyes</i>]</p>
<p>Now that one really is <i>enchanting</i>—they’ve got
your hair <i>beautifully</i>. Oh, yes, my dear, it’s perfect——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Complacently</i>]</p>
<p>It <i>is</i> good. She’s sweet—Madame Henderson, she
simply won’t hear of my paying for these—she says
it’s quite sufficient to be allowed to exhibit them in
the window.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Is anyone dining this evening?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No. Oh, dear! I’d forgotten—I’m dining out
with Tom.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_45"/>[45]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh—I see.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Your first night home, too—how perfectly fiendish.
What a fool I am to have muddled it up.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It doesn’t matter, darling.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh, but it <i>does</i>. I wonder if we could get another
seat——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Seat? What for?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>We’re going to the first night of “The New
Elaine.” It’s going to be marvelous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Who’s in it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nora Dean and Selwyn Steele——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, God!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_46"/>[46]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s silly of you <i>always</i> to jeer at Selwyn Steele.
He’ s a brilliant actor, if only he could get away
from his wife....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I couldn’t bear him to-night, anyway; I’m tired.
Is father home yet?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, I don’t think so. Oh, I do feel such a
beast——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t be silly—honestly, I don’t mind a bit.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I know—you have a nice quiet dinner here and
join us at the Embassy afterwards.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Is it a late night?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, they play the most heavenly tune there now—Tom
always makes them do it over and over again—I’ll
put it on——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She goes to the gramophone.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_47"/>[47]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How’s Iris?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>My dear, don’t speak of her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why—what’s she done?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She’s been absolutely foul.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>In what way?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Every way—I never trusted her, luckily—Thank
God I’ve got instincts about people—listen, isn’t this
marvelous—She said the most filthy things to Gloria
Craig about me—I always knew she was insanely
jealous, but there are limits. I loathe being at
people’s beck and call.... Come and dance.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>As they dance</i>]</p>
<p>I’m sorry you’ve rowed—I rather liked her——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_48"/>[48]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Only because she kept on saying how wonderful
you were.... She doesn’t know a thing about
music really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh yes, she does.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s merely bluff—all that appreciation. <i>Darling</i>,
how oddly you’re dancing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s probably because we haven’t danced together
for so long....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Anyhow, now she’s gone off to Monte Carlo with
Violet Fenchurch—silly fool——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">David Lancaster</span>. <i>He is an elderly gray-haired
pleasant man.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>[<i>Delighted</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—my boy——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Kissing him</i>]</p>
<p>Hallo, father——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_49"/>[49]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I thought—Florence said—to-morrow——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother muddled it up.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>You look rather tired.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m splendid. How’s everything?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>The same as usual. I’ve made lots of improvements
down at the house.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>David thinks and talks of nothing but the
farm——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>It’s beginning to pay a bit—Peterson’s an awfully
good man.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We’ll make a grand tour of it on Sunday.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Have you enjoyed yourself in Paris?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_50"/>[50]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh yes, rather—it’s a splendid place to work.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>It never struck me that way quite, but still——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Sophie de Molignac said Nicky’s playing had improved
wonderfully.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I’m so glad, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’ve been doing some Spanish stuff lately.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I wish I knew more about it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Never mind, father.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Come to my room and talk. I can’t bear that
thing——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Father’s such a beast; he never will dance with me.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_51"/>[51]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Is the <i>Evening News</i> anywhere about?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, here.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He gives it to him</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I’m so glad you’re home again, Nicky—don’t forget—come
and talk....</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He goes out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>David’s so much happier in the country.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why on earth doesn’t he retire and live at the
house for good?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Work has become such a habit with him—he’s
always hated giving up habits.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother—I’ve got something rather important to
tell you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Darling, how thrilling! What is it?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_52"/>[52]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I am engaged to be married.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Practically—as much as one can be these days.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t look so stricken.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>But, Nicky—I never sort of visualized you being
engaged, or married, or anything.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why not?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re not old enough.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m twenty-four.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You don’t look it.... Thank God!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_53"/>[53]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What do you really feel about it, mother?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p><i>Darling</i>—I hardly know what to say—you’ve
sprung it on me so suddenly. Who is she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>A girl called Bunty Mainwaring.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What a silly name!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It isn’t at all—it’s very attractive.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Is she an actress, or a student, or what?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Neither—she is what is technically termed a
“lady.”</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do you think she’ll like me?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She went mad over your photograph.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_54"/>[54]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Which one?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>The “looking out of the window” one.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>That really is one of the best I’ve ever had done.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She said you had the face of an heroic little boy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What a <i>divine</i> thing to say!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She glances at herself in the glass.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She does say divine things—she’s supremely intelligent.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Is she in Paris?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, she came over with me to-day.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Where does she live?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_55"/>[55]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Just round the corner in Carbury Square.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Near the Churchingtons.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s her mother’s house, but her mother’s away
just now, so I asked her to change quickly and come
on here.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why not? I wanted you to see her as soon as
possible.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Realizing parental responsibility</i>]</p>
<p>It’s an awful shock, you know.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Nonsense, mother—you’re quite excited about it,
really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>With determination</i>]</p>
<p>I shall be charming to her.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_56"/>[56]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Then she’ll adore you at once—probably too much,
and I shall be jealous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’d better both dine here together and come
on to the Embassy. How old is she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Twenty-three.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What does she do?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Nothing much—she writes things occasionally.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Where did you meet her?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>First of all at a party at Olive Lloyd-Kennedy’s.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I can’t bear Olive Lloyd-Kennedy—she’s a cat.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Then I met her again at Marion Fawcett’s—a
frightful sort of reception affair—she was staying
with her.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_57"/>[57]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She seems to move exclusively with my worst enemies.
Is she pretty?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t know—I haven’t really noticed.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>With a touch of real feeling</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky darling, I do feel so extraordinary about it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why extraordinary?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s a milestone, isn’t it—you being engaged? A
definite milestone? [<i>She catches sight of herself.</i>]
Look at my nose. [<i>She powders it.</i>] I do hope
she’ll like me—I must go and dress now; Tom is
fetching me half-past seven. Bring her to my room
when she comes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t go for a minute.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I must, really—Tom will be furious.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, damn Tom!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_58"/>[58]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh, Nicky, <i>don’t</i> go and take one of your tiresome
prejudices against him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
<p>All right, I’ll try not to.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He’s frightfully good-looking.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>And he adores music.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Now, then, mother——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He does, honestly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Good.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>And he dances beautifully.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_59"/>[59]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I shall never stop dancing with him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>And he’s so good at games.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>He sounds adorable.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Of course, he needs knowing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>So do I.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You will make an effort, though, darling, won’t
you? For my sake!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, mother.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>And we’ll all have a divine time together, Tom
and me and you and what’s her name——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Bunty.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_60"/>[60]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh yes, of course, Bunty.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Front door bell rings.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>This is her, I expect.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do you feel wonderful about her?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It is thrilling, isn’t it—being in love?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Frowning a little</i>]</p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Your father was right—you look awfully tired,
Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What nonsense! I feel grand.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_61"/>[61]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>[<i>Announcing</i>]</p>
<p>Miss Mainwaring.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>comes in, very self-assured and well-dressed.
She is more attractive than pretty in a boyish
sort of way.</i>]</p>
<p>[<span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>goes out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Bunty. You have been quick.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’ve simply flown.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Bunty ... here is mother....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking both her hands</i>]</p>
<p>This is frightfully exciting, isn’t it?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She kisses her.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’ve told her.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_62"/>[62]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Are you furious?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Of course not. Why should I be? ’Specially now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s absolutely incredible, you being Nicky’s
mother.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Am I anything like you thought I’d be?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes, exactly—but I couldn’t believe it until I
saw you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Take off that perfectly divine cloak and have a
cigarette. I’ve got to rush and dress now, because
I’m <i>terribly</i> late, but you’re dining here with Nicky
and joining Tom Veryan and me at the Embassy
afterwards.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Tom Veryan?...</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes. Do you know him?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_63"/>[63]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I did when I was a child—if it’s the same one.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She takes off her cloak.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Effusively</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—I don’t feel extraordinary about it any
more—I’m <i>delighted</i>.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Angel.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Perhaps Bunty would like to come down to the
house on Friday for the week-end?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh yes! Marvelous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s awfully sweet of you, Mrs. Lancaster.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You must call me Florence; I can’t bear Mrs.
Lancaster. I must fly; Tom will be here at any
moment—that’s him on the desk.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_64"/>[64]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Going over to photograph</i>]</p>
<p>Yes—it is the same one.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How too divine!...</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Telephone rings.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>Hallo!... Yes, speaking!... Elsa darling, how
are you?... What?... To-night?... How perfectly
heavenly! Of course, I’d adore it.... Listen.
Nicky’s just back from Paris. Can he come,
too, with Bunty Mainwaring?... Yes, he’s here....
See you to-night, dear....</p>
<p>Here, Nicky, talk to Elsa....</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She snatches up her hand-bag and fur coat and
kisses</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>effusively</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p>I’m so glad about you and Nicky—It’s too wonderful.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She rushes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>At telephone</i>]</p>
<p>Hallo, Elsa.... I’d no idea you were in London.
I’m terribly thrilled. My dear, you haven’t....
All those lovely tunes you played to me in Paris?...
<i>How amazing!</i> I <i>am</i> glad.... Have you
done anything with that Tango?... You must
play it to-night; I want Bunty to hear it.... It is<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_65"/>[65]</span>
perfect, isn’t it?... Good-bye, dear. [<i>He hangs
up the receiver.</i>] Bunty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m terribly happy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>So am I.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Do you remember how we planned all this—coming
home together—and breaking it to mother—and
everything?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Rather.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Do you really like her?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I adore her—she’s a perfect angel.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I told her your “heroic little boy” line; she
loved it.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_66"/>[66]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s true, you know—rather defiant too—laughing
at Fate.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Doesn’t Paris seem ages away now?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>A different life altogether.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>That nasty little bit of Channel is such an enormous
gulf, really. Did you put that dress on on
purpose.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
<p>Perhaps.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You are a devil.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s such fun being reminded of things.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>And such agony, too.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nicky darling—why agony?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_67"/>[67]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s always agony being in love, and I started
loving you in that dress.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Did you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t pretend you didn’t know.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I suppose one always knows—really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>From the very first moment.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>A sort of spark.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Your playing helped a lot.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I meant it to.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Calculating pig.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_68"/>[68]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Have a cigarette?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>All right.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He hands her box, and she takes one.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Lighting her cigarette</i>]</p>
<p>I wish we weren’t so free.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Why? What do you mean?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I feel I should like to elope, or something violently
romantic like that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
<p>There wouldn’t be much point in it now, would
there?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Perhaps not. How much do you love me?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I don’t know.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_69"/>[69]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s fun analyzing one’s emotions.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Marvelous fun.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>And a comfort, too, when things go wrong—but
it kills sentiment stone dead.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>A good job, too.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re frightfully hard, Bunty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Am I?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Much harder than me—really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’ve got so much hysteria.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I can’t help it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Of course not; it’s your temperament. You burst
out suddenly.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_70"/>[70]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not so badly as I used to.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re growing older.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>God, yes! Isn’t it foul?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Hell, my dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s funny how mother’s generation always longed
to be old when they were young, and we strain every
nerve to keep young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>That’s because we see what’s coming so much
more clearly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Wouldn’t it be terrible to know <i>exactly</i>?—I feel
frightened sometimes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We’re all so hectic and nervy....</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_71"/>[71]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It doesn’t matter—it probably only means we
shan’t live so long....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Suddenly</i>]</p>
<p>Shut up—shut up....</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>[<i>Announcing</i>]</p>
<p>Mr. Veryan.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>. <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>greets him and shakes hands.
Exit</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How are you? I’m Nicky—I came over to-day
instead of to-morrow....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Do you know Bunty Mainwaring?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Bunty—I say—I am glad.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>They shake hands warmly.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_72"/>[72]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We’d better have some cocktails.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes to the door and shouts.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>Preston ... bring us some cocktails....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>This <i>is</i> jolly. I didn’t know what had become
of you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’ve been living in Paris a good deal.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>How many years ago is it since we?...</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>During the War. The last time I saw you you
were at Sandhurst.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Such a pretty place.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You’ve hardly altered a bit—more grown up, of
course.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>All this is most affecting.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_73"/>[73]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Bunty and I used to know each other awfully
well.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What fun!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Warningly</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>But it is—it’s thrilling—there’s nothing so charming
as a reunion.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nicky and I have been traveling all day....
Boats and trains get on his nerves....</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>When the cocktails come, tell Preston to bring
mine to me in father’s room.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nicky, don’t be so silly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Surely it’s not silly to want to talk to my aged
father after a year’s debauch in Paris? I fail to
see why you should have the monopoly of reunions.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_74"/>[74]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Well, don’t be long.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Cheerio!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Crossly</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, God!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>What’s up?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>These temperamental musicians.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Silly ass.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>He isn’t really—he’s only jealous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Why ... is he?...</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>We’re by way of being engaged.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_75"/>[75]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>What?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Why not?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Are you ... are you in love with him?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Lightly</i>]</p>
<p>Yes—isn’t it damnable?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Good Lord!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He laughs.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What are you laughing at?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>It seems so funny you being in love with that sort
of chap.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What do you mean by “that sort of chap”?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh—I don’t know, that type seems so unlike you.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_76"/>[76]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Type?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Yes, you know—up in the air—effeminate.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re more bucolic than you used to be, Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Here, I say....</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Preston</span> <i>with cocktails</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Will you please take Mr. Nicky’s in to him in
his father’s room?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Yes, miss.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Is Mrs. Lancaster nearly ready?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>I think so, sir.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Ask her to hurry. We shall be late.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_77"/>[77]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Preston</span></p>
<p>Yes, sir.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I can laugh now.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She does so.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’ve just realized something.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>What?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>We shall meet again—over the week-end.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Are you coming down to the house?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>That’s splendid. Come for a tramp Sunday
morning and we’ll talk.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_78"/>[78]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What about?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh, lots of things—old times.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Lifting her cocktail</i>]</p>
<p>Old times, Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Doing the same</i>]</p>
<p>Cheerio!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span></p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_79"/>[79]</span></p>
<p class="center fs150 p4">ACT II</p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter">
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_81"/>[80-81]</span></p>
<h2 class="nobreak" id="ACT_II">ACT II</h2>
</div>
<p><i>The scene is the hall of</i> <span class="smcap">Mrs. Lancaster’s</span> <i>house,
about forty miles from London.</i></p>
<p><i>When the curtain rises it is just after dinner on
the Sunday of the week-end party—the gramophone
is going and there is a continual buzz of conversation.</i>
<span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span>, <i>an emaciated soprano, is
dancing with</i> <span class="smcap">Tom Veryan</span>, <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>with</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>,
<i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>with</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span>. <span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>is seated on the
club fender, talking intellectually with</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>,
<i>an earnest dramatist, the squalor of whose
plays is much appreciated by those who live in comparative
luxury</i>.</p>
<p><i>There must be a feeling of hectic amusement and
noise, and the air black with cigarette smoke and
superlatives. During the first part of the scene
everyone must appear to be talking at once, but the
actual lines spoken while dancing must be timed to
reach the audience as the speakers pass near the
footlights. This scene will probably be exceedingly
difficult to produce, but is absolutely indispensable.</i></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s much too fast, Nicky.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_82"/>[82]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Do slow down a bit.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s the pace that’s marked on the record.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I’ve never danced well since the War, I don’t know
why.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>But your last act was so strong, when she came in
half mad with fright and described everything
minutely.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I try to write as <i>honestly</i> as possible.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I gave her three for manners, but seven for
charm, because I had to be a <i>little</i> nice!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I thought she was rather a decent sort.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>No, but really, Nicky, his technique completely
annihilated his inspiration.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_83"/>[83]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not with Debussy and Ravel, with the older masters,
yes; but he’s probably tired of them.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>That’s so stupid, I think.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>My dear, it was the most “chic” thing you’ve ever
seen, but unfortunately the wrong color.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Marion Ferris had that Poiret model copied in
the most frightful blue!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I believe my shoe’s coming off.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Shall we stop?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>No, it’s all right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I wonder if you could gouge this cigarette-end
out of the holder for me?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_84"/>[84]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I’ll try. [<i>He does so.</i>] I always smoke a pipe
when I’m working.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How soothing!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I suppose one can never really judge properly
from a recital.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not with him, because he’s not dramatic enough.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Dramatic pianists make me uncomfortable.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Pawnie, your tongue grows more venomous every
day.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Giggling</i>]</p>
<p>Well, I had to say something—anyhow, it was
true.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Especially about her ankles.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_85"/>[85]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>My dear, yes!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>They both laugh.</i>]</p>
<p class="hang15">[<i>The record comes to an end, and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>begins to
change it. Everyone talks and laughs.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>You must come next Sunday week.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Thanks awfully, I’d love to.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I’m only singing ballads, but you know what
Sunday concerts are.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh yes, rather.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span>]</p>
<p>What’s on the other side?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>“You’ve got the cutest ears and eyes and nose.”</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Do put on “Spoony Moon in Upper Carolina.”</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_86"/>[86]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>No, don’t put it on, Nicky; play it yourself; you
always make the gramophone go too quickly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes, go on, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Refusing</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce’s</span> <i>offer of a cigarette</i>]</p>
<p>No, thanks, not another—I’m dancing with Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Gayly</i>]</p>
<p>Missing one, Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Righto!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>commences to play a fox-trot</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Dragging</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>to his feet</i>]</p>
<p>Come on, Mr. Fairlight, don’t overdo the serious
dramatist stunt!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I warn you I’m no good.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He dances with her, and confirms the truth of his
warning.</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span> <i>squashes down on<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_87"/>[87]</span>
the piano-seat next to</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>and endeavors with
one finger in the treble to follow the tune he is
playing</i>. <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>stand right down
close to the footlights, smoking and talking;
their backs are half turned to the audience, but
their remarks must be perfectly audible</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Tom Veryan doesn’t dance as well as he thinks
he does.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>With that figure he ought to be marvelous.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>He’s too athletic.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Anyhow, I’m sure he’s a success at the Bath Club.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Doesn’t Florence look astounding?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Absolutely. She knows exactly what suits her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Where’s David?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_88"/>[88]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>He went off to his study to smoke.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I do wish Florence wouldn’t be irritable with him
in front of everybody. I felt acutely uncomfortable
at dinner.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>It makes Nicky furious as a rule, but to-night he
was too occupied with that stupid little fool Bunty
Mainwaring to take any notice.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>She’s an excellent type.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Very average; I only hope nothing will come of
Nicky’s mania for her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I don’t think we need worry.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Wait and see, my dear.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_89"/>[89]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>Leaving</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>at the piano and advancing on</i>
<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>]</p>
<p>Come and dance, Pawnie, and tell me how divinely
I sang on Tuesday.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Agreeably</i>]</p>
<p>You didn’t.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Ten for cruelty.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>They start to dance.</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>moves over to the
mantelpiece for a cigarette</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Have you a match, Nicky?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Isn’t this a marvelous tune?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Fascinating! [<i>She goes over and sits next to him.
Gently slipping her hand into his coat pocket.</i>]
Darling, I <i>do</i> want a match. [<i>She brings out a little
box.</i>] What a divine little box!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>stops playing and jumps up</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_90"/>[90]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Violently</i>]</p>
<p>Helen, give that to me!——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Everyone stops dancing.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Nicky dear, <i>don’t</i> be tiresome.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Recovering himself.</i>]</p>
<p>I’m sick of playing. Let’s have the gramophone
again. [<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span>.] Here’s a light, dearie.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He takes match-box out of another pocket and
lights</i> <span class="smcap">Helen’s</span> <i>cigarette. She looks at him
queerly for a moment, then he restarts the
gramophone and everyone begins to dance again
except</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>. <span class="smcap">Helen</span>
<i>goes over to the fireplace and takes a coffee-cup
from the mantelpiece</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Whose coffee is this? Some one drank mine,
and I’d hardly touched it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>If it had no sugar in it, it’s mine.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_91"/>[91]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Draining it</i>]</p>
<p>It had no sugar in it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re dancing abominably, Tom.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh, Am I?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What’s the matter with you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I don’t know. I suppose I’m tired.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re not usually tired when you’re dancing
with me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh, Florence, don’t nag!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How dare you speak to me like that?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She stops dancing and goes over to the fireplace</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Following her</i>]</p>
<p>I say, Florence—I’m sorry——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_92"/>[92]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Let’s stop the music for a moment and think of
something really marvelous to do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>No, let’s go on dancing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I’m exhausted.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Stopping the gramophone</i>]</p>
<p>What was that divine game we played coming
back from Paris, Helen?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Just ordinary “Clumps,” wasn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I loathe “Clumps.”</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What about the History game?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>What’s that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Oh no, Nicky; it’s too intellectual.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_93"/>[93]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>There’s a Mah-Jong set in the drawing-room.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>How divine! Let’s make up a table immediately.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I won’t be happy until some one gives me a set
made entirely of jade.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Come on, Bunty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Looking at</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>]</p>
<p>I can’t play it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You can; you used to play in Paris with Yvonne.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’ve forgotten it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’ll soon remember again.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He drags her off.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Come along, Clara.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_94"/>[94]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I insist on Mr. Fairlight learning.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I’m afraid I’m no good at that sort of thing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>You’ll be able to put it in one of your plays.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Come and watch; it’s too thrilling for words.</p>
<p>[<span class="smcap">Clara</span>, <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>go off</i>.]</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Have you only one set, Florence?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes. Isn’t it maddening? Clara promised to
bring hers down, but forgot.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Does Bruce Fairlight play Bridge?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, I don’t think so.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Dramatists are such a comfort in a house party,
aren’t they?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes off.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_95"/>[95]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Are you coming, Florence?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Nonplussed</i>]</p>
<p>Oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>But please don’t let me stop <i>you</i> going. I’m sure
you’re <i>dying</i> to be with the others.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I say, Florence, I wish you wouldn’t go on like
that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what’s the matter with you; you’ve
never behaved like this before.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I haven’t behaved like anything.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’ve been exceedingly rude to me, both at dinner
and afterwards.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_96"/>[96]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I wasn’t at dinner.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, you were; you snapped me up when I said
I didn’t like Elsie Saunders.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You know perfectly well she’s a friend of mine.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Well, she oughtn’t to be, after the things she’s
said about me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You will go on imagining.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nothing of the sort—I <i>know</i>! If you weren’t so
dense you’d see, too—the jealousy I have to put up
with. I get so tired of it all, so desperately tired.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She becomes a little pathetic.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Talk about being different, you’re different
too——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m unhappy.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_97"/>[97]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Because I hate to see you being put against me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Florence!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’ll understand one day. They’re all very
subtle, but I can see.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Nobody’s said a word to me about you; they’d
better not try.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why, what would you do?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I’d—I’d be furious.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>And I’d let them see it, too.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_98"/>[98]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Holding out her hands</i>]</p>
<p>Tom——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Yes?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I forgive you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I can’t bear you being angry with me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Can’t you, really?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>It makes me feel beastly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Come and sit here.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sitting next to her on the club fender</i>]</p>
<p>That’s a lovely dress.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It is sweet, isn’t it?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_99"/>[99]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You always wear wonderful clothes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do I, Tom?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You know you do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do you remember the very first time we met?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Rather.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oxford’s so full of romance, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>It was when you came down.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Thank you, Tom dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>We did have fun.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You used to come up to <i>matinées</i>, and I’d motor
you back afterwards.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_100"/>[100]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Ripping!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>That reminds me, I’ve got seats for “Rolling
Stones” on Tuesday. Don’t forget.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You never said you were going to get them.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It doesn’t matter. I thought I did. We’d better
dine at Claridges.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>But, Florence, I—I can’t come!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why not?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I promised to go out.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Who with?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Mother.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_101"/>[101]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Can’t you put her off? It will be such a good
first night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Well—you see, as a matter of fact—it’s rather
awkward. I put her off the other day——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>There is a slight pause.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>A trifle coldly</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, well, never mind, we’ll go some other night.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">David</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Hallo, Florence! I thought you were in the drawing-room.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>They’re playing Mah-Jong, and there’s only one
set. I shall break in presently.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I’ll just go and see how they’re getting on.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>This obvious excuse for getting out of the room is
not lost upon</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, do.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_102"/>[102]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Come and play soon.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes out quietly.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t you think this is a divine frock?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Very pretty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You and Helen seemed to be very thick at dinner.
What were you talking about?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Nothing much. I like Helen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Only because she flatters you and listens to everything
you say.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>She doesn’t flatter me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I suppose she was talking about the farm, and
giving her opinions.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>We did discuss the farm a little.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_103"/>[103]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She doesn’t know a thing about it, really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Perhaps not, but it passed the time.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He goes out.</i>]</p>
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>sits still for a moment, then she wearily
buries her face in her hands. Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Going to her</i>]</p>
<p>What’s the matter, darling?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nothing. I’ve got a slight headache.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why don’t you go Byes?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I can’t; it’s much too early.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m sick of Mah-Jong.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Who’s playing now?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_104"/>[104]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Pawnie and Helen and Clara are trying to teach
Bruce Fairlight; he’s an awful fool at it.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He sits down at the piano and plays absently.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You must get Bunty out of that habit of contradicting
everything people say.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t see why.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s bad breeding.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Striking a note viciously</i>]</p>
<p>Who cares nowadays? We’ve all got a right to
our opinions.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She seems to forget that I’m much older than
she is.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>That’s no argument, mother; it’s silly only to
remember your age when some one says something
you don’t like.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_105"/>[105]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>She’s having a bad effect on you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Nonsense!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’ve changed since Paris.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Naturally.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You never used to be rude to me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, damn, I’m not rude.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, you are.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Well, don’t start running down Bunty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Stop playing—stop playing!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Getting up angrily</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, God!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes towards door and collides with</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_106"/>[106]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>What’s happening?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nothing. Bunty’s just putting Nicky against me.
I knew she’d try to.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You must be having a delightful evening! You
leave the drawing-room, having rowed with Bunty,
and come here and row with Florence.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother’s impossible.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>She’s no different from what she’s always been.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Well, I haven’t realized it before.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking a cigarette and lighting it</i>]</p>
<p>You haven’t been engaged before.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m hating this house party.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_107"/>[107]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Lightly</i>]</p>
<p>Don’t say that, dear; it’s not kind.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You know I don’t mean you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Are you very much in love?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes.—No.—I don’t know.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I wonder.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s utterly devastating, anyhow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>When did you meet her?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>About five months ago.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>What was she doing in Paris?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, I don’t know—fooling about.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_108"/>[108]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Splendid.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s been studying French literature.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s going to write—herself—some day.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Oh, I see!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Helen, do you like her?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I can’t tell yet—yesterday was the first time I’d
ever set eyes on her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s wonderfully intelligent.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes—I’m sure she is.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You <i>don’t</i> like her?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_109"/>[109]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I tell you—I’m not sure yet.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s generally the way—one’s friends always hate
one another.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
<p>It <i>is</i> difficult for you, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I should so like you to like her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Very well—I’ll try.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s utterly opposite to me in every way.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, I see that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>But that’s as it ought to be, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It depends.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_110"/>[110]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I need a sort of restraining influence terribly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s awfully good for me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Is she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes—she curbs me when I get temperamental and
silly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I always felt you needed encouraging more than
curbing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, Helen—aren’t you a darling!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I mean it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re wrong, though—I’m all over the place.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_111"/>[111]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Anyhow, I do hope you’ll be very happy with her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t suppose I shall ever be that. I haven’t got
the knack.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Do you work hard?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Really hard?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Frightfully.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Liar!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>If you’d seen me in Paris—studying, studying—all
night long until the gray dawn put the guttering
candle to shame—and my nerveless hands dropped
from the keys——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_112"/>[112]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Candles gutter awfully quickly when they’re
burned at both ends.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Meaning that I look a debauched wreck of my
former self?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Exactly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>If you go on encouraging me at this rate I shall
commit suicide.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You do resent anyone taking a real interest in
you, don’t you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I distrust it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t know—I’m not worth it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You seem to be suffering from a slight inferiority
complex.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_113"/>[113]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not a bit of it—I’m gay and witty and handsome.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Oh, Nicky, you’re so maddening.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t be cross, Helen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’m one of the few people who know what you’re
really like, and you won’t give me the credit for it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Do you think you do, honestly?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes—and I’m exceedingly worried about you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You needn’t be.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re sensitive and reserved and utterly foolish.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Thank you—I’m beginning to feel beautifully
picturesque.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_114"/>[114]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>And you’re scared.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why! What have I to be scared about?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Would you like me to tell you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why not?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Because you’re a sentimentalist, and you see
things that aren’t there at all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re far more sentimental than I.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Darling Helen—you’ve got such a lovely mind—like
a Christmas card—with frosted robins and sheep
wandering about in the snow—bleating.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>All the same, I should give up drugs if I were you.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_115"/>[115]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Helen!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Well?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what you mean.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Do you think I can’t see?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Forcing a laugh</i>]</p>
<p>You’re being terribly funny, aren’t you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You fool! You unutterable little fool!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t be dramatic, dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I thought you had common sense; I credited you
with more intelligence than that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>If you persist in being absurd.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_116"/>[116]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Suddenly with intense feeling</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky, don’t resist me, don’t fight me; I’m your
friend; I wouldn’t have said a word if I weren’t.
You’ve got to stop it; you haven’t gone very far yet;
there’s still time. For God’s sake listen to reason.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Shut up, shut up, don’t speak so loudly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Nicky, throw it away.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>When did you find out?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>To-night, you know, when you were playing, but
I’ve guessed for ages.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You needn’t be frightened, Helen; I only take
just the tiniest little bit, once in a blue moon!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>If anything goes wrong, you’ll take a lot. Throw
it away.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_117"/>[117]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What could go wrong?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Never mind, throw it away!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I can’t. Look out; somebody’s coming.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">David</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Hallo!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Hallo, father!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>What’s the matter?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>The matter—why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>You look very worried.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Helen and I have just had a grand heart-to-heart
talk; we’ve undone our back hair, loosened our stays
and wallowed in it.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_118"/>[118]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Oh, I see!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>We haven’t seen one another for so long—it was
inevitable.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>You never came and looked at the farm this morning.
I waited for you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m awfully sorry, father—I just went on sleeping.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’ll see you later, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>All right.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>goes out</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>How do you think your mother’s looking?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Splendid—the same as ever.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_119"/>[119]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Would you like a cigar?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, thanks, father—I’m not very good at them.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I was just on my way to bed—there are far too
many people in the house.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Smiling</i>]</p>
<p>You must be used to that by now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>You ought to stay down here, you know—during
the week, and get some fresh air.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’ve got such millions of things to do in London.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Worth doing?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, of course.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>You look as though you needed a rest.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_120"/>[120]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You needn’t worry about me—I feel splendid.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>She seems a nice girl.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Who—Bunty?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Yes. Quiet and untiresome.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>She’s a darling!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>When do you propose to get married?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t know. The engagement’s only a sort of
try out, you know.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Oh, I see. I didn’t realize that. I’m so unversed
in modern technicalities.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s her idea really—just to tread water for a bit.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_121"/>[121]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>It sounds an excellent plan.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m awfully glad you like her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Is she musical?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, yes—frightfully!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>Good!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Father, I think I will come down here for a few
days—and work quietly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>If you do that I’ll go up to London every other
day. I see so little of you when you’re at the flat.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>That’s settled then. I wonder what mother will
say!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>I’ll talk to her.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_122"/>[122]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>All right. She won’t bother about us much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">David</span></p>
<p>No—I don’t suppose she will. I think I’ll be
getting along to bed now. Good night, my boy!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Good night, father!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>They shake hands, and</i> <span class="smcap">David</span> <i>pats</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky’s</span> <i>shoulder
rather tentatively. He goes upstairs and</i>
<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>wanders to the piano. He plays absently,
and</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>enters</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I want to talk to you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Still playing</i>]</p>
<p>All right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Perhaps you’d stop playing for a minute.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Won’t you let me woo you with a little Scriabine?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Please stop.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_123"/>[123]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Rising</i>]</p>
<p>I’m unappreciated—that’s what it is.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>There is a slight pause—he goes over to her.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p>I say, Bunty——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Before you say anything awful to me, I <i>am</i> sorry
for being rude just now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>So you ought to be.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Will you forgive me?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes, I forgive you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’ve been irritable all the evening.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Give me a cigarette, Nicky.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_124"/>[124]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Here.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>They both smoke.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Thanks.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What did you want to talk to me about?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Lots of things—us!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Hardening</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, I see!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Don’t you think it’s rather silly—being engaged?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, not at all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Just because we bickered a bit to-night?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_125"/>[125]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>No, not only because of that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why then?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Can’t you see?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Well, we’re not very suited to each other, are we?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why do you suddenly say that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Because I’ve only just realized it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m sorry.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s not your fault particularly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m glad.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_126"/>[126]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s circumstances and surroundings.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, that can be altered quite easily. We’ll change
the shape of the house—we’ll take all that wall away
and turn that into a studio—you love studios, don’t
you?—then we’ll transform the drawing-room into
an enormous aviary.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s practically that now!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>And then we’ll——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Shut up, Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m only trying to be amenable.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Are you, really?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, I’m putting up a sort of defense, Bunty.
I have a feeling that you’re going to be unpleasant,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_127"/>[127]</span>
and I want to establish myself comfortably before
you start.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I don’t want to be unpleasant—only honest.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You won’t let the two run together, will you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>With vehemence</i>]</p>
<p>You’re hopeless, hopeless, hopeless!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes—I think I am, rather.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>In a way I’m glad—it makes it easier.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Does it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re not in love with me, really—you couldn’t
be!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Please don’t say that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Why don’t you face things properly?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_128"/>[128]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>One generally has to in the end. I like to put it
off for as long as possible.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>That’s cowardly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t be pompous, darling.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re a great help, I must say.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why should I help to destroy my own happiness?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>That’s self-pity and self-deception.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why are you going on like this?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Because I tell you—I’ve realized the truth.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I suppose you’ve taken a hatred to mother!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>No, not a hatred.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_129"/>[129]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You don’t like her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Not very much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why not? She likes you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>She detests me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Nonsense! Why should she?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Because I’m young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What a filthy thing to say!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s true.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s nothing of the sort.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re so stupid sometimes.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_130"/>[130]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Thank you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Don’t let’s start bickering again.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We won’t discuss mother any more then.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You started it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I wish I could make you understand her like I do.
I mean she’s awfully irritating, I know—but deep
down she’s marvelous in spite of everything.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Coldly</i>]</p>
<p>Everything?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Vehemently</i>]</p>
<p>Yes, <i>everything</i>! Don’t be a beast, Bunty; just
try to see her point a little, even if you do dislike
her. She is terribly silly about being “young,” I
know, but she’s been used to so much admiration and
flattery and everything always, she feels she sort of
can’t give it up—you do see that, don’t you? And
she hasn’t really anything in the least comforting<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_131"/>[131]</span>
to fall back upon. She’s not clever—real kind of
brain cleverness—and father’s no good, and I’m no
good, and all the time she’s wanting life to be as it
was instead of as it is. There’s no harm in her
anywhere—she’s just young inside. Can’t you
imagine the utter foulness of growing old? ’Specially
if you’ve been lovely and attractive like she
was. The beautiful Flo Lancaster! She used to
be known as that. I can remember her when I was
quite small, coming up to say good night to me,
looking too perfectly radiant for words—and she
used to come to the school, too, sometimes, and
everyone used to go mad over her, and I used to get
frightfully proud and excited——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’ve never heard you talk like this before.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t think I ever have.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I like you better clear cut, not blurred by sentiment.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>looks at her for a moment in amazement</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>To describe you as hard would be inadequate—you’re
metallic!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_132"/>[132]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I can see straight.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Politely</i>]</p>
<p>Can you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes. We could never be happy together.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Perhaps not.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Shall we just—finish—then?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Certainly, I’m sorry we were too modern to have
an engagement ring; you’d have been able to give it
back to me so beautifully.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Don’t be ridiculous!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Better than being blurred by sentiment.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>lights another cigarette and, kicking off her
shoes, perches on the club fender and proceeds
to warm her feet at the fire</i>.]</p>
<p>[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Clara Hibbert</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_133"/>[133]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>My dear, I’m <i>shattered</i>—and I’m going straight
to bed—probably for several weeks.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Why?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Shshsh! He’s coming.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Who’s coming?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Bruce Fairlight. I’ve been teaching him Mah-Jong.
These master brains—agony, dear——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce Fairlight</span>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>Very interesting, that game.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>[<i>Weakly</i>]</p>
<p>I thought you’d like it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>It’s interesting <i>psychologically</i>! The concentration
and suspense——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_134"/>[134]</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Enter</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>, <span class="smcap">Helen</span>, <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span>. <span class="smcap">Tom</span>
<i>is grasping a whisky and soda</i>—<span class="smcap">Pawnie</span> <i>is eating
a biscuit</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I’m quite exhausted; it must be the country
air——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>—It was too lovely, because I started with two
red dragons in my hand——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I wondered who had them——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>One more tune, Nicky, before we go to bed——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, just one——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Looking at</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span>]</p>
<p>I’ll play “I love you”—such a romantic tune.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He puts on the gramophone.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Do.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_135"/>[135]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>What time’s everyone going up in the morning?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>The ten-o’clock’s the best—we’ll have breakfast
at nine downstairs.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>Confidentially</i>]</p>
<p>Do you know that in London I can never do more
than nibble a piece of thin toast, and whenever I’m
away I eat <i>enormously</i>!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How very peculiar!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Your tone revolts me, Nicky. You must never be
irascible with your old friends.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I haven’t got any.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Sorry, Helen.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_136"/>[136]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what’s the matter with Nicky. He’s
been in a vile temper all the evening—his first week-end
home, too.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Such a pity, when so much trouble has been taken
to make me happy and cozy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Come and dance, Bunty.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>No, not now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Dance with him, Bunty. Chaps must have exercise.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You dance with Bunty, Pawnie—I’ll dance with
Tom—come on.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>dance</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>The great thing in this world is not to be obvious,
Nicky—over <i>anything</i>!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>dance, also</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Pawnie</span>.
<i>Everyone talks at once, as in the beginning
of the act.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_137"/>[137]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>You are infuriating, Helen. It’s a wonderful
book.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Thoroughly second-rate.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>What do you think about <i>Mischievous Passion</i>,
Fairlight?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I never read novels on principle.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Well, you must read this—it’s colossal.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Don’t be led away by Pawnie, Mr. Fairlight, he
has no discrimination.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>But I tell you it’s brilliant! Absolutely <i>brilliant!</i></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Nonsense.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>There are times, Helen, when I could willingly
see you dead at my feet.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_138"/>[138]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>A little slower, for Heaven’s sake!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How’s that?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He makes it far too slow.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I think you’d better go to bed, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>We’re all going, anyhow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Not yet, please, mummy dear—I’m having such a
lovely time!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He slams off in a rage.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I always knew the Continent was fatal for the
young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nicky’s upset—it’s my fault—we’re not engaged
any more.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why—what’s happened?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_139"/>[139]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nothing happened—it was never very serious,
really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I had a feeling that it was.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You were wrong.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Well, I must say it’s all been rather abrupt.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s better to finish things off at once—cleanly—if
you’re not quite sure, don’t you think?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Well, I’m sorry, Bunty. If you feel like that
about it there’s nothing more to be said.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I wouldn’t have mentioned it at all—only you all
seemed to be blaming him for being irritable——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Poor Nicky!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_140"/>[140]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>I really must go up to bed now. I’m so tired.
Good night, Florence dear.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Good night, Clara. Breakfast at nine. Have
you got books and everything you want?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Clara</span></p>
<p>Yes, thanks. Good night, everyone.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Everyone murmurs good night politely.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Tom, be an angel and fetch me a glass of milk.
It’s in the drawing-room.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>All right.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He goes off.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Come on up, Florence. I’m dead.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>So am I. Will you turn out the lights when you
come?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>With beautiful precision, dear.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_141"/>[141]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>As she and</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>go upstairs</i>]</p>
<p>Tell Tom to bring my milk up to me, somebody.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>All right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Good night, Mr. Fairlight.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>Good night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>Good night, Florence.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>go off</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>I suppose we’d all better go up.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I don’t feel I could sleep yet.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>Re-enter</i> <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>with glass of milk</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Hallo! Where’s Florence?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Gone up to bed. Will you take her milk to her?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_142"/>[142]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>What’s become of Nicky?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>In the smoking-room, I think.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>Good night, Miss Mainwaring.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Good night.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>They shake hands.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>I shall come, too—good night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Good night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>[<i>To</i> <span class="smcap">Bruce</span> <i>as they go upstairs</i>]</p>
<p>When you’re writing, do your characters grow as
you go along?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bruce</span></p>
<p>No, I think each one out minutely beforehand.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Pawnie</span></p>
<p>How too intriguing.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>They go off.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_143"/>[143]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>So you’ve broken it off already?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I didn’t know you were going to do it so soon.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>It’s better to get things over.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>What did he say?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Nothing much.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Was he furious?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Oh, what does it matter? Don’t let’s go on about
it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>It’s all damned awkward.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>What?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_144"/>[144]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>The whole thing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re rather scared, aren’t you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>No, not exactly—now that I’ve got you to back
me up.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I shall be glad when we’re out of this house.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>So shall I.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I hate the atmosphere.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I don’t know how I’ve stood it for so long.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You didn’t notice it until I came, any more than
I noticed Nicky’s atmosphere until you came.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>It’s queer, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>We’re reverting to type, don’t you see?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_145"/>[145]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>How d’ye mean?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Never mind, it’s true.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Do you think I’m being a cad to Florence?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Yes, I do rather.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>But, Bunty! You said this morning——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>That I didn’t see how you could help yourself;
neither I do. It’s frightfully difficult, but it’s not
altogether your fault, any more than it would have
been mine if I’d married Nicky. One gets carried
away by glamour, and personality, and magnetism—they’re
beastly treacherous things.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You are wonderful.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Don’t be silly.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_146"/>[146]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You’re so cool and clear, and you see everything.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I’m sorry—for Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Oh, damn Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Laughing</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, Tom!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Why, what’s up?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>You’re so dead set.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>You’re worth ten of him any day. What’s the
use of a chap like that? He <i>doesn’t do</i> anything
except play the piano—he can’t play any games, he’s
always trying to be funny——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Shut up, Tom; you’re being rather cheap. I
haven’t reverted to type so quickly that I can’t see
some of the things I’m missing.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_147"/>[147]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I wish I knew what you were talking about.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Oh, God! I feel so miserable!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She burst into tears.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Flummoxed</i>]</p>
<p>I say—Bunty—for Heaven’s sake——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He puts his arm round her.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>Shaking him off</i>]</p>
<p>Don’t, don’t. Give me my shoes——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He picks up her shoes; she puts them on. She is
half sobbing all the time.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I say, old girl, hadn’t you better go to bed?
You’re all wrought up!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>He said beastly things.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I’ll wring his neck.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_148"/>[148]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>[<i>With a fresh burst of tears</i>]</p>
<p>Shut up, Tom, shut up——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Bunty, stop crying—there’s a dear; please, please
stop crying——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He takes her in his arms and kisses her; she is
groping for her handkerchief.</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>
<i>comes quietly downstairs</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I can’t find my hanky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Here’s mine.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Like a pistol shot</i>]</p>
<p>Tom!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>break away</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Yes, Florence?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Ominously</i>]</p>
<p>What does this mean?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_149"/>[149]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I’m sorry, Florence—I——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You utter cad!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>Look here—I should like to say——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Be quiet—mind your own business.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>enters</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Seeing tears on</i> <span class="smcap">Bunty’s</span> <i>face</i>]</p>
<p>What’s the matter—is anybody hurt?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Ominously</i>]</p>
<p>No, not hurt!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I banged my hand, that’s all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Liar!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother—don’t be so stupid——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_150"/>[150]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Florence—I——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t <i>speak</i> to me——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Quietly</i>]</p>
<p>Mother—not now—not now—it’s all wrong. Control
yourself! Bunty—Bunty—do go to bed—please.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He goes to the piano and begins to play jazz.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>All right—Tom——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>goes to the fireplace, trembling with
rage</i>. <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>goes on playing</i>. <span class="smcap">Tom</span> <i>and</i>
<span class="smcap">Bunty</span> <i>go towards the stairs</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Stop—I want an explanation, please!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>How dare you speak to me like that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Get out of my house! Get out of my house!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_151"/>[151]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>This is disgusting!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>I say, Florence——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Get out of my house!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Bunty</span></p>
<p>I shall leave the first thing in the morning; it’s
much too late to-night.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes off.</i>]</p>
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>never stops playing for a moment</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Tom. [<i>He goes towards her, absolutely silent.</i>]
You kissed her—you kissed her—I saw you!——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>In this house!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Yes, Florence. I apologize.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_152"/>[152]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Apologize! You’re beneath contempt. Never
speak to me again, never touch me again—I hate
you!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>Look here, Florence—I’m desperately sorry. You
see, I’m afraid I love her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Hysterically</i>]</p>
<p>You dare to stand there and say that to me? It’s
incredible—after all I’ve done for you—after all
we’ve been to each other. Love! You don’t know
what it means. You’ve lied to me—all these months.
It’s contemptible—humiliating. Get out of my
sight!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Tom</span></p>
<p>[<i>Turning and going upstairs</i>]</p>
<p>Very well.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Suddenly realizing that he is gone</i>]</p>
<p>Tom—Tom—come back—come back!——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She runs upstairs after him.</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>at last stops
playing and lets his hands drop from the keys</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span></p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_153"/>[153]</span></p>
<p class="center fs150 p4">ACT III</p>
<hr class="chap x-ebookmaker-drop"/>
<div class="chapter"/>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_155"/>[154-155]</span></p>
<h2 class="nobreak" id="ACT_III">ACT III</h2>
<p><i>The scene is</i> <span class="smcap">Florence’s</span> <i>bedroom the same night.
About two hours have elapsed. When the curtain
rises</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>is lying face downwards on the bed;
she is dressed in a very beautiful but slightly exotic
négligé</i>.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>is standing by the window, fully dressed;
she is holding the curtain aside, and a bar of moonlight
comes in to mingle with the amber of the dressing-table
lights</i>. <span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>is obviously extremely
hysterical</i>.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Florence, what <i>is</i> the use of going on like that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I wish I were dead!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s so cowardly to give way utterly—as you’re
doing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t care—I don’t care!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_156"/>[156]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>If you don’t face things in this world, they only
hit you much harder in the end.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He loved me—he adored me!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Never! He hadn’t got it in him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>After all I’ve done for him, to go to—to Bunty!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Leaving the window</i>]</p>
<p>If it hadn’t been Bunty it would have been some
one else—don’t you see how inevitable it was?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>How dared they!—Here!—In this house!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>That’s a little thing; it doesn’t matter at all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It does—it does——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Florence, sit up and pull yourself together.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_157"/>[157]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sitting up slowly</i>]</p>
<p>I think I’m going mad.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Not a bit of it; you’re just thoroughly hysterical.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Give me some water.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Helen</span> <i>goes to the bathroom and returns with a
glass of water</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking it</i>]</p>
<p>What time is it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Looking at her watch</i>]</p>
<p>Ten past one.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t go to London by the early train, Helen;
stay and come up with me in the car.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Very well.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Thank God, you were here!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_158"/>[158]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I wish I’d known what was happening; I might
have done something.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What can I do to get him back?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Don’t be silly.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What can I do—what can I do?——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Do you mean to say you’d <i>take</i> him back after
to-night?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, never. Not if he crawled to me—never——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Well, then, make up your mind definitely never
to see him again whatever happens.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes—I will.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Why don’t you go to bed now?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_159"/>[159]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I couldn’t sleep.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Put it all out of your mind—make an effort.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I can’t—I’m too unhappy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Think of Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky’s young.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>That doesn’t make it any better for him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He’ll get over it in the long run.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>The long run never counts at the moment.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He wasn’t in love—really?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>As much as either you or he are capable of it.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_160"/>[160]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He’s well rid of her. She’d never have appreciated
him properly—she hasn’t the intelligence.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I don’t agree with you there—she’s got intelligence
right enough.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Treacherous little beast!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, but far-seeing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Are you standing up for her? Do you think it
was <i>right</i> of her to get Tom away from me?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, quite right.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>To do her justice, she didn’t deliberately set herself
out to get him away from you at all. She discovered
that in spite of the somewhat decadent years
Tom was still her type, and likely to remain so. So<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_161"/>[161]</span>
with common sense she decided to shelve Nicky
forthwith and go for him.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Her type indeed!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, she’d have been quite a nice girl really if
she’d been left alone and not allowed to go to Paris
and get into the wrong set.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You are extraordinary, Helen. Do you realize
that you’re making excuses for the girl who’s betrayed
your best friend?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Don’t be so utterly absurd. I’m not making
excuses, and, anyhow, she hasn’t betrayed you. She
hardly knows you, in the first place, and she’s just
followed her instincts regardless of anyone else’s
feelings—as you’ve done thousands of times.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen—you’re being horrible to me!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I’m not, I’m trying to make you see! You’re
battering your head against silly cast-iron delusions,
and I want to dislodge them.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_162"/>[162]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen, I’m so unhappy—so desperately unhappy.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, but not because you’ve lost Tom; it’s something
far deeper than that.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What then?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You’re on the wrong tack, and have been for
years.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t understand.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>You <i>won’t</i> understand!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>gets off the bed and goes over to the
dressing-table. She sits and stares at herself
in the glass for a moment without speaking.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>My eyes are sore. [<i>She powders her face and
sprays a little scent on her hair.</i>] It’s so lovely
this—and so refreshing.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I think I’ll go to bed now.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_163"/>[163]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, wait a little longer with me—please, Helen—just
a few minutes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s so hot in here.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Open the window then.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>All right.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She goes to the window and opens it.</i> <span class="smcap">Florence</span>
<i>takes a cigarette out of a box and then shakes
a scent-bottle and rubs the cigarette lightly
with the stopper</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Do you ever do this? It’s divine.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>What a wonderfully clear night. You can see
the hills right across the valley—the moon’s quite
strong.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>goes to the window and stands next to</i>
<span class="smcap">Helen</span>, <i>looking out—she is puffing her cigarette</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_164"/>[164]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I chose this room in the first place because the
view was so lovely.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Do you ever look at it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Listlessly</i>]</p>
<p>Of course I do, often!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It’s been raining. I wish you’d throw away that
cigarette—it spoils the freshness.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Turning away</i>]</p>
<p>It’s soothing me—calming my nerves.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I do wish I could help you—really!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You are helping me, darling—you’re being an
angel.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Suddenly angry</i>]</p>
<p>Don’t talk so emptily, Florence; I’m worth more
than that.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_165"/>[165]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what you mean.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>It sickens me to see you getting back so soon.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Getting back?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Yes, to your usual worthless attitude of mind.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>A little while ago you were really suffering for
once, and in a way I was glad because it showed you
were capable of a genuine emotion. Now you’re glossing
it over—swarming it down with your returning
vanity; soon you won’t be unhappy any more—just
vindictive.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t go on at me like that—I’m too wretched.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>[<i>Going to her</i>]</p>
<p>Florence dear, forgive me, but it’s true—and I
don’t want it to be.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_166"/>[166]</span></p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>The door opens and</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>enters. He is in dressing-gown
and pyjamas. His face looks strained
and white.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Helen, I want to talk to mother, please.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>All right, Nicky.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What is it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I couldn’t sleep.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>Florence dear—good night.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No—no, Helen—don’t go yet——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I must.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Helen—stay with me.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_167"/>[167]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Please go.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Helen</span></p>
<p>I can’t stay, Florence—it’s quite impossible.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She goes out.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what you mean—by coming here and
ordering Helen out of my room.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m sorry, mother. I felt I had to talk to you
alone.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>At this hour of the night? You’re mad!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, I’m not; I think I’m probably more unhappy
than I’ve ever been in my life.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re young—you’ll get over it.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I hope so.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I knew the first moment I saw her—what sort of
a girl she was.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_168"/>[168]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Oh, mother!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s true. I had an <i>instinct</i> about her.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s all been rather a shock, you know——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Becoming motherly</i>]</p>
<p>Yes, dear—I know—I know—but you mustn’t
be miserable about her; she isn’t worth it. [<i>She
goes to kiss him.</i>]</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Gently pushing her away</i>]</p>
<p>Don’t, mother!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Listen, Nicky. Go back to bed now—there’s a
dear; my head’s splitting.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I can’t yet.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Take some aspirin; that’ll calm your nerves.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_169"/>[169]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m afraid I’m a little beyond aspirin.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t want you to think I don’t sympathize
with you, darling—my heart <i>aches</i> for you—I know
so well what you’re going through.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Do you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s agony—absolute agony—but, you see—it will
wear off—it always does in time. [<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>doesn’t
answer</i>.] Nicky, please go now!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I want to talk to you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>To-morrow—we’ll talk to-morrow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, now—<i>now</i>!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re inconsiderate and cruel—I’ve told you my
head’s bursting.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_170"/>[170]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I want to sympathize with you, too—and try to
understand everything—as well as I can——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Understand everything?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, please.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t know what you mean——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Will you tell me things—as though I were somebody
quite different?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What kind of things?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Things about you—your life.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Really, Nicky—you’re ridiculous—asking me to
tell you stories at this hour!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_171"/>[171]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>With dead vehemence</i>]</p>
<p>Mother—sit down quietly. I’m not going out of
this room until I’ve got everything straight in my
mind.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sinking down—almost hypnotized</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—please—I——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Tom Veryan has been your lover, hasn’t he?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Almost shrieking</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—how dare you!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Keep calm—it’s our only chance—keep calm.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Bursting into tears</i>]</p>
<p>How dare you speak to me like that—suggest
such a thing! I——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s true, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Go away—go away!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_172"/>[172]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s true, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No—no!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s true, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No—I tell you—no—no—no!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re lying to me, mother. What’s the use of
that?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re mad—mad——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Does father know?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Go away!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Does father know?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_173"/>[173]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Your father knows nothing—he doesn’t understand
me any more than you do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Then it’s between us alone.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I tell you I don’t know what you’re talking about.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother—don’t go on like that; it’s useless. We’ve
arrived at a crisis; wherever we go—whatever we
do we can’t escape from it. I know we’re neither of
us very strong-minded or capable, and we haven’t
much hope of coming through successfully—but let’s
try. It’s no good pretending any more—our lives
are built up of pretenses all the time. For years—ever
since I began to think at all, I’ve been bolstering
up my illusions about you. People have made
remarks, not realizing that I was your son, and I’ve
pretended that they were inspired by cattiness and
jealousy. I’ve noticed things—trivial incriminating
little incidents, and I’ve brushed them aside and
not thought any more about them because you were
my mother—clever and beautiful and successful—and
naturally people <i>would</i> slander you <i>because</i> you<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_174"/>[174]</span>
were so beautiful—and now I <i>know</i>—they were
right!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—I implore you—go away now—leave me
alone.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, I can’t.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re cruel—cruel to torment me——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t want to be cruel——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Go to bed then, and we’ll talk everything over
quietly another time.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It is true about Tom Veryan, isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No. No——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We’re on awfully dangerous ground. I’m straining
every nerve to keep myself under control. If<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_175"/>[175]</span>
you lie to me and try to evade me any more—I won’t
be answerable for what might happen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Dropping her voice—terrified</i>]</p>
<p>What do you mean?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t know—I’m frightened.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—darling Nicky—I——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>She approaches him.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t touch me, please.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Have a little pity for me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Was Tom Veryan your lover?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>In a whisper</i>]</p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I want to understand why——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_176"/>[176]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He loved me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>But you—did you love him?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It was something you couldn’t help, wasn’t it—something
that’s always been the same in you since
you were quite, quite young?——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, Nicky—yes——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>And there have been others, too, haven’t there?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>With her face in her hands</i>]</p>
<p>I won’t be cross-questioned any more—I won’t—I
won’t——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I wish you’d understand I’m not blaming you—I’m
trying to help you—to help us both——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_177"/>[177]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What good can all this possibly do?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Clear things up, of course. I can’t go on any
more half knowing——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why should that side of my life be any concern
of yours?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>But, mother!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m different from other women—completely different—and
you expect me to be the same. Why
can’t you realize that with a temperament like mine
it’s impossible to live an ordinary humdrum life.
You’re not a boy any longer—you’re a man—and——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m nothing—I’ve grown up all wrong.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>It’s not my fault.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_178"/>[178]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Of course it’s your fault, mother—who else’s fault
<i>could</i> it be?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Your friends—the people you mix with——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It wouldn’t matter <i>who</i> I mixed with if only I had
a background.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’ve got as much money as you want—you’ve
got your home——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Bitterly</i>]</p>
<p>Home! That’s almost funny—there’s no peace
anywhere—nothing but the ceaseless din of trying
to be amused——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>David never complains.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I don’t suppose you’ve looked at father during the
last few years—or you wouldn’t say that.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_179"/>[179]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>He’s perfectly happy because he’s sensible—he
lives his own life and doesn’t try to interfere with
mine.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It must be your vanity that makes you so dreadfully
blind—and foolish.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Understand once and for all, I <i>won’t</i> be spoken to
like this——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’ve had other lovers besides Tom Veryan—haven’t
you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, I have—I have. Now then!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Well, anyhow—that’s the truth—at last——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He rises, turns his back on her and stands looking
out of the window.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>After a pause—going to him</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—don’t be angry—please don’t be angry
with me.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_180"/>[180]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m not angry a bit. I realize that I’m living in
a world where things like this happen—and they’ve
got to be faced and given the right value. If only
I’d had the courage to realize everything before—it
wouldn’t be so bad now. It’s the sudden shock
that’s thrown the whole thing out of focus for me—but
I mean to get it right. Please help me!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Dully</i>]</p>
<p>I don’t know what to do.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s your life, and you’ve lived it as you’ve wanted
to live it—that’s fair——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes—yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’ve wanted love always—passionate love, because
you were made like that. It’s not your fault—it’s
the fault of circumstances and civilization; civilization
makes rottenness so much easier. We’re
utterly rotten—both of us——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—don’t—don’t——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_181"/>[181]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How can we help ourselves? We swirl about in a
vortex of beastliness. This is a chance—don’t you
see—to realize the truth—our only chance.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Oh, Nicky, do stop—go away!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t keep on telling me to stop when our only
hope is to hammer it out.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re overwrought. It isn’t as bad as you think.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Isn’t it?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, no. Of course it isn’t. To-morrow morning
you’ll see things quite differently.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You haven’t understood.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, I have—I have.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_182"/>[182]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You haven’t understood. Oh, my God, you haven’t
understood! You’re building up silly defenses in
your mind. I’m overwrought. To-morrow morning
I shall see things quite differently. That’s true—that’s
the tragedy of it, and you won’t see. To-morrow
morning I <i>shall</i> see things quite differently.
All this will seem unreal—a nightmare—the machinery
of our lives will go on again and gloss over
the truth as it always does—and our chance will be
gone forever.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Chance—chance? What are you talking about—what
chance?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I must make you see, somehow.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re driving me mad.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Have patience with me—please—please——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Wildly</i>]</p>
<p>How can I have patience with you? You exaggerate
everything.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_183"/>[183]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No I don’t—I wish I did.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Listen—let me explain something to you.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Very well—go on.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re setting yourself up in judgment on me—your
own mother.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>No, I’m not.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You are—you are. Let me speak. You don’t
understand my temperament in the least—nobody
does—I——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re deceiving yourself—your temperament’s
no different from thousands of other women, but
you’ve been weak and selfish and given way all along
the line——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Let me speak, I tell you!——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_184"/>[184]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What’s the use? You’re still pretending—you’re
building up barriers between us instead of helping
me to break them down.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What are you accusing me of having done?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Can’t you see yet?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No, I can’t. If you’re preaching morality, you’ve
no right to. That’s my affair—I’ve never done any
harm to anyone.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Look at me.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Why—what do you mean?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’ve given me <i>nothing</i> all my life—nothing that
counts.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Now you’re pitying yourself.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_185"/>[185]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes, with every reason.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>You’re neurotic and ridiculous. Just because
Bunty broke off your engagement you come and say
wicked, cruel things to me——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You forget what I’ve seen to-night, mother.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t care what you’ve seen.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’ve seen you make a vulgar, disgusting scene in
your own house, and on top of that humiliate yourself
before a boy half your age. The misery of
losing Bunty faded away when that happened—everything
is comparative, after all.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I didn’t humiliate myself——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You ran after him up the stairs because your
vanity wouldn’t let you lose him. It isn’t that you
love him—that would be easier—you never love anyone,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_186"/>[186]</span>
you only love them loving you—all your so-called
passion and temperament is false—your whole
existence had degenerated into an endless empty
craving for admiration and flattery—and then you
say you’ve done no harm to anybody. Father used
to be a clever man, with a strong will and a capacity
for enjoying everything—I can remember him like
that—and now he’s nothing—a complete nonentity
because his spirit’s crushed. How could it be otherwise?
You’ve let him down consistently for years—and
God knows I’m nothing for him to look forward
to—but I might have been if it hadn’t been for
you——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Don’t talk like that. Don’t—don’t. It can’t be
such a crime being loved—it can’t be such a crime
being happy——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re not happy—you’re never happy—you’re
fighting—fighting all the time to keep your youth
and your looks—because you can’t bear the thought
of living without them—as though they mattered
in the end.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Hysterically</i>]</p>
<p>What does anything matter—ever?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_187"/>[187]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>That’s what I’m trying to find out.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I’m still young inside—I’m still beautiful. Why
shouldn’t I live my life as I choose?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You’re not young or beautiful; I’m seeing for the
first time how old you are. It’s horrible—your
silly fair hair—and your face all plastered and
painted——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—Nicky—stop—stop—stop!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She flings herself face downwards on the bed.</i>
<span class="smcap">Nicky</span> <i>goes over to her</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Go away—go away—I hate you—go away——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother—sit up——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Pulling herself together</i>]</p>
<p>Go out of my room——</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_188"/>[188]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Mother——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I don’t ever want to see you again—you’re insane—you’ve
said wicked, wicked things to me—you’ve
talked to me as though I were a woman off the
streets. I can’t bear any more—I can’t bear any
more!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I have a slight confession to make——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Confession?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Go away—go away——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Taking a small gold box from his pocket</i>]</p>
<p>Look——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What do you mean—what is it——?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_189"/>[189]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Don’t you know?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>takes the box with trembling fingers and
opens it. She stares at it for a moment. When
she speaks again her voice is quite dead.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky, it isn’t—you haven’t——?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Why do you look so shocked?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Dully</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, my God!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>What does it matter?</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<span class="smcap">Florence</span> <i>suddenly rises and hurls the box out of
the window</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p>That doesn’t make it any better.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Flinging herself on her knees beside him</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky, promise me, oh, promise you’ll never do it
again—never in your life—it’s frightful—horrible——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It’s only just the beginning.</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_190"/>[190]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What can I say to you—what can I say to you?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Nothing—under the circumstances.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>What do you mean?</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It can’t possibly matter—now.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Matter—but it’s the finish of everything—you’re
young, you’re just starting on your life—you must
stop—you must swear never to touch it again—swear
to me on your oath, Nicky—I’ll help you—I’ll
help you——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>You!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p>[<i>He turns away.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Burying her face in her hands and moaning</i>]</p>
<p>Oh—oh—oh!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>How could you possibly help me?</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_191"/>[191]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Clutching him</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Almost losing control</i>]</p>
<p>Shut up—shut up—don’t touch me——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Trying to take him in her arms</i>]</p>
<p>Nicky—Nicky——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I’m trying to control myself, but you won’t let
me—you’re an awfully rotten woman, really.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—stop—stop—stop——</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She beats him with her fists.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Leave go of me!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He breaks away from her, and going up to the
dressing-table he sweeps everything off on to
the floor with his arm.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Screaming</i>]</p>
<p>Oh—oh—Nicky——!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_192"/>[192]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Now then! Now then! You’re not to have any
more lovers; you’re not going to be beautiful and
successful ever again—you’re going to be my mother
for once—it’s about time I had one to help me, before
I go over the edge altogether——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Nicky—Nicky——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>Promise me to be different—you’ve got to promise
me!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sinking on to the end of couch, facing audience</i>]</p>
<p>Yes—yes—I promise—— [<i>The tears are running
down her face.</i>]</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>I love you, really—that’s why it’s so awful.</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>He falls on his knees by her side and buries his face
in her lap.</i>]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>No. No, not awful—don’t say that—I love you,
too.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Sobbing hopelessly</i>]</p>
<p>Oh, mother——!</p>
<p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_193"/>[193]</span></p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>[<i>Staring in front of her</i>]</p>
<p>I wish I were dead!</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>It doesn’t matter about death, but it matters terribly
about life.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>I know——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>[<i>Desperately</i>]</p>
<p>Promise me you’ll be different—promise me you’ll
be different——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, yes—I’ll try——</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Nicky</span></p>
<p>We’ll both try.</p>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Florence</span></p>
<p>Yes, dear.—Oh, my dear——!</p>
<div class="blockquot">
<p class="hang15">[<i>She sits quite still, staring in front of her—the
tears are rolling down her cheeks, and she is
stroking</i> <span class="smcap">Nicky’s</span> <i>hair mechanically in an effort
to calm him</i>.]</p>
</div>
<p class="p1 center"><span class="smcap">Curtain</span></p>
